



[88]





NOTES OF SPEECH AGAINST ASSESSMENTS FOR SUPPORT OF RELIGION. NOVEMBER — 1784.mad. mss.




I. Rel. not within purview of civil authority.1

Tendency of estabg Xnty—1. to project of Uniformity. 2. to penal laws for supportg it.

Progress of Gen. Assest proves this tendency.

Difference between estabg. and tolerating errour.

“True question—not Is Rel. necessy,—but

II. are Religs. Estabts necesy. for Religion? No.

1. propensity of man to Religion.

2. Experience shews Relig. corrupted by Estabts.

3. Downfall of States mentioned by Mr. H.—happened where there was estabt

4. Experience gives no model of Genl Asst

5. Case of Pa. explained—not solitary. N. J. See const. of it. R. I. N. Y. D. factions greater in S. C.

6. Case of primitive Xnty.

of Reformation.

of Dissenters formerly.

7. Progress of Religious liberty.

III. Policy—

1. promote emigrations from State.

2. prevent immig. into it, as asylum.

IV. Necessity of Estabt inferred from state of coy.

True causes of disease.

1. war } common to other States & produce same complts in N. E.

2. bad laws }

3. pretext from taxes.

4. state of administration of Justice.

5. transition from old to new plan.

6. policy and hopes of friends to G. Asst.

True remedies not Estabt.—but, being out of war,

1. laws to cherish virtue.

[89]

2. administration of justice.

3. personal example—associations for R.

4. By present vote, cut off hope of G. asst.

5. Education of youth.

V. Probable defects of Bill,

1. limited.

2. in particular.

3. What is Xnty? Courts of law to Judge.

4. What edition: Hebrew, Septuagint, or Vulgate? What copy what translation?

5. What books canonical, what apocryphal? the papists holding to be the former what protestants the latter, the Lutherans the latter what the protestants & papists ye former.

6. In what light are they to be viewed, as dictated every letter by inspiration, or the essential parts only? Or the matter in general not the words?

7. What sense the true one for if some doctrines be essential to Xnty those who reject these, whatever name they take are no Xn Society?

8. Is it Trinitarianism, Arianism, Socinianism? Is it salvation by faith or works also, by free grace or by will, &c., &c.

9. What clue is to guide [a] Judge thro’ this labyrinth when ye question comes before them whether any particular society is a Xn society?

10. Ends in what is orthodoxy, what heresy.

Dishonors christianity.

panegyric on it, on our side.

Decl. Rights.”



	James Madison





Novr 14th, 1784

Richmond

	James Monroe





TO JAMES MONROE.mad. mss.




Richmond

, Novr 14th, 1784


notes for speech in the virginia house of delegates November, 1785.1

COMMERCIAL REGULATIONS.mad. mss.




Genl. regl. necessary whether the object be to

1. counteract foreign plans

[195]

2. encourage ships & seamen

3. — — —— manufactures

4. Revenue

5. frugality. [articles of luxury most easily run from State to State]

6. Embargo’s in war—case of Delaware in late war.1

necessary to prevent contention amg States.

1. Case of French provinces, Neckar says 23,000 patrols employd. agst internal contraband.2

2. Case of Massts. & Cont.

3. Case of N. Y. & N. J.

4. Pa & Delaware

5. Va. & Maryd. late regulation

6. Irish propositions

necessary to Justice & true Policy

1. Cont & N Hamp:

2. N. J.

3. N. C.

4. Western Country.

Necessary as a system convenient & intelligible to foreigners trading to U. S. Necessary as within reason of federal constitution, the regulation of trade being as imposãble by states as peace, war, ambrs &c.

Treaties of comtildeerce ineffectual without it

Safe with regd to the liberties of the States.

1. Congs may be trusted with trade as well as war &c

2. power of Treaties involve the danger if any—

3. Controul of States over Congs.

4. example of amphyctionic league, achean do. Switzerld., Holland, Germany.

[196]

5. peculiar situation of U. S. increase the repellant power of the States. Essential to preserve fedl Constitution.

1. declension of fedl Govt.

2. inadequacy to end, must lead states to substitute some other policy no institution remaining long when it ceases to be useful, &c.

3. policy of G. B. to weaken union.

Consequences of dissolution of confederacy. 1. Appeal to sword in every petty squabble. 2. Standing armies beginning with weak & jealous states. 3. perpetual taxes. 4. sport of foreign politics. 5, 6. blast glory of Revolution.



	James Madison
	

[220]

Act to amend the Militia law.

At the last Session of 1784 and act passed displacing all the militia officers, and providing for the appointmt of experienced men. In most counties it was carried into execution, and generally much to the advantage of ye militia. In consequence of a few petitions agst. the law as a breach of the Constitution, this act reverses all the proceedings under it, and reinstates the old officers.

Act to extend the operation of the Escheat law to the Northern Neck.

From the peculiar situation of that district the Escheat law was not originally extended to it. Its extension at this time was occasioned by a bill brought in by Mr. Mercer for seizing and selling the deeded land of the late lord Fairfax on the ground of its being devised to aliens, leaving them at liberty indeed to assert their pretensions before the Court of Appeals. As the bill however stated the law & the fact, and excluded the ordinary inquest, in the face of pretensions set up even by a Citizen, (Martin,) to whom it is said the reversion is given by the will, it was opposed as exerting at least a Legislative interference in and improper influence on the Judiciary question. It was proposed to substitute the present act as an amendmt to the bill in a Committee of the whole which was disagreed to. The bill being of a popular cast went thro’ the H. of D. by a great majority. In the Senate it was rejected by a greater one, if not unanimously. The extension of the escheat law was, in consequence, taken up and passed.

“Act for punishing certain offences.”

to wit, attempts to dismember the State without the consent of the Legislature. It is pointed agst the faction headed by A. C[ampbell], in the County of Washington.

Act for amending the appropriating Act.

Complies with the requisition of Congs for the present year, to wit 1786. It directs 512,000 dollars, the quota of this State, to be paid before May next the time fixed by Congress, altho’ it is known that the postponement of the taxes renders the payment of a shilling impossible. Our payments last year gained us a little reputation. Our conduct this must stamp us with ignominy.

Act for regulating the Salaries of the Civil list.

Reduces that of the Govrr. from £1,000 to £800, & the others some at a greater and some at a less proportion.

Meant chiefly to affect vacant land in the Northern Neck, erroneously conceived to be in great quantity and of great value.Act for disposing of waste lands on Eastern waters.

The price is fixed at £25 per Hundred acres, at which not an acre will be sold.

An act imposing addl tonnage on British vessels.

Amounting in the whole to 5 s. per ton.

[221]

Nothing has been yet done with N. C. towards opening a Canal thro the Dismal. The powers given to Commsrstilde on our part are renewed, and some negociation will be brought about if possible. A certain interest in that State is suspected of being disinclined to promote the object, notwithstanding its manifest importance to the community at large. On Potowmack they have been at work some time. On this river they have about eighty hands ready to break ground, and have engaged a man to plan for them. I fear there is a want of skill for the undertaking that threatens a waste of labour and a discouragement to the enterprize. I do not learn that any measures have been taken to procure from Europe the aid which ought to be purchased at any price, and which might I should suppose be purchased at a moderate one.

I had an opportunity a few days ago of knowing that Mrs Carr and her family, as well as your little daughter, were well. I am apprehensive that some impediments still detain your younger nephew from his destination. Peter has been in Williamsburg, and I am told by Mr. Maury that his progress is satisfactory. He has read, under him, Horace, some of Cicero’s Orations, Greek testament, Æsop’s fables in Greek, ten books of Homer’s Iliad, & is now beginning Xenophon, Juvenal, & Livy. He has also given some attention to French.

I have paid le Maire ten guineas. He will set out in about three weeks I am told for France. Mr. Jones has promised to collect & forward by him all such papers as are in print and will explain the situation of our affairs to you. Among these will be the most important acts of the Session, & the Journal as far as it will be printed.

Mr Wm. Hays in sinking a well on the declivity of the Hill above the proposed seat of the Capitol and nearly in a line from the Capitol to Belvidere, found about seventy feet below the surface, several large bones, apparently belong to a fish not less than the Shark, and what is more singular, several fragments of potter’s ware in the stile of the Indians. Before he reached these curiosities he passed thro’ about fifty feet of soft blue clay. I have not seen the articles, having but just heard of them, & been too closely engaged; but have my information from the most unexceptionable witnesses who have. I am told by Genl Russel of Washington County, that in sinking a Salt well in that County he fell in with the hip bone of the incognitum, the socket of which was about 8 inches diameter. It was very soft in the subterraneous State, but seemed to undergo a petrefaction on being exposed to the air.

Adieu. Affecly.

Promotions.—Edward Carrington & H. Lee, Jr., added to R. H. Lee, Js. Monroe, and Wm Grayson, in the delegation to Congress.

Carter Braxton to the Council.

Jno. Tyler to court of admiralty, in room of B. Waller, resd.

prices current.—Tobo, 23s. on James River, and proportiatildelly elsewhere.

Wheat, 5s to 6s. per Bushel.

Corn, 18s to 20s. per Barrel.

Pork 28s to 30s pr Ct.





[222]

	James Madison
	

	
SPEECH IN THE VIRGINIA HOUSE OF DELEGATES, NOVEMBER, 1786, AGAINST PAPER MONEY.1mad. mss.




Unequal to Specie. 1. being redemtildeble at future day and not bearing interest. 2. illustrated by [obliterated] of Bank notes—Stock in funds—paper [280] of Spain issued during late war [see Neckar on finance]. Navy bills—tallies. 3. being of less use than specie which answers externally as well as internally—must be of value which depends on the use.

Unjust. 1. to creditors if a legal tender. 2 to debtors if not legal tender, by increasing difficulty of getting specie. This it does by increasing extravagance & unfavourable balance of trade—& by destroying that confidence between man & man, by which resources of one may be comtildeanded by another. Illustrated 1 by raising denomination of coin 2. increasing alloy of do. brass made as silver by the Romans according to Sallust.1 3 by changing weights & measures. 4. by case of creditors within who are debtors without the State.

Unconstitutional 1. Affects rights of property as much as taking away equal value in land; illustrd. by case of land pd. for down & to be conveyd. in future, & of a law permitting conveyance to be satisfied by conveying a part only—or other land of inferior quality—2. affects property without trial by Jury.

[281]

Antifederal. Right of regulating coin given to Congs. for two reasons. 1. for sake of uniformity. 2. to prevent fraud in States towards each other or foreigners. Both these reasons hold equally as to paper money.

Uñecessary. 1. produce of country will bring in specie, if not laid out in superfluities. 2. Of paper, if necessary, eno’ already in Tobo. notes, & public securities—3. the true mode of giving value to these, and bringing in specie is to enforce Justice & taxes.

Pernicious. 1. by fostering luxury, extends instead of curing scarcity of specie—2. by disabling compliance with requisition of Congs. 3. serving dissentions between States. 4. destroyg. confidence between individuals. 5. discouraging comtildeerce—6 enrichg. collectors & sharpers—7. vitiating morals. 8. reversing end of Govt. which is to reward best & punish worst. 9. conspiring with other States to disgrace Republican Govts. in the eyes of mankind.

Objection. paper money good before the War.

Answr. 1. not true in N. Engd. nor in Va. where exchange rose to 60 per ct. nor in Maryd. see Franklyn on paper money 2. confidence then not now. 3. principles of paper credit not then understood. Such wd. not then nor now succeed in Great Britain &c.



[282]

	James Madison
	
	
April 23, 1787

New York

	Thomas Jefferson





TO THOMAS JEFFERSON.1


New York

, April 23, 1787

.

Dear Sir,—



Congress have agreed to Mr. Jay’s report on the treaty of peace, and to an address which accompanies it. Copies of both will no doubt be sent you from his Department. The Legislature of this State, which was sitting at the time, and on whose account the acts of Congress were hurried through, has adjourned till January next, without deciding on them. This is an ominous example to the other States, and must weaken much the claim on Great Britain of an execution of the treaty on her part, as promised in case of proper steps being taken on ours. Virginia, we foresee, will be among the foremost in seizing pretexts for evading the injunctions of Congress. South Carolina is not less infected with the same spirit. The present deliberations of [358] Congress turn on, first, the sale of the Western lands; secondly, the government of the Western settlements within the Federal domain; thirdly, the final settlement of the accounts between the Union and its members; fourthly, the treaty with Spain.

1. Between six and seven hundred thousand acres have been surveyed in townships, under the land ordinance, and are to be sold forthwith. The place where Congress sit is fixed for the sale. Its eccentricity, and remoteness from the premises, will, I apprehend, give disgust. On the most eligible plan of selling the unsurveyed residue, Congress are much divided; the Eastern States being strongly attached to that of townships, notwithstanding the expense incident to it; the Southern being equally biassed in favor of indiscriminate locations, notwithstanding the many objections against that mode. The dispute will probably terminate in some kind of compromise, if one can be hit upon.

2. The government of the settlements on the Illinois and Wabash is a subject very perplexing in itself, and rendered more so by our ignorance of many circumstances on which a right judgment depends. The inhabitants at those places claim protection against the savages, and some provision for both criminal and civil justice. It appears also that land-jobbers are among them, who are likely to multiply litigations among individuals, and, by collusive purchases of spurious titles, to defraud the United States.

3. The settlement of the public accounts has long [359] been pursued in varied shapes, and with little prospect of success. The idea which has long been urged by some of us, seems now to be seriously embraced, of establishing a plenipotentiary tribunal for the final adjustment of the mutual claims, on the great and simple principle of equity. An ordinance for this purpose has been reported by the Treasury Board, and has made some progress through Congress. It is likely to be much retarded by the thinness of Congress, as indeed is almost every other matter of importance.

4. The Spanish negotiation is in a very ticklish situation. You have been already apprized of the vote of seven States last fall for ceding the Mississippi for a term of years. From sundry circumstances it was inferred that Jay was proceeding under this usurped authority. A late instruction to him to lay the state of the negotiation before Congress has discovered that he has adjusted with Guardoqui an article for suspending the use of the Mississippi by the citizens of the United States. The report, however, leaves it somewhat doubtful how far the United States are committed by this step, and a subsequent report of the Secretary on the seizure of Spanish property in the Western country, and on information of discontents touching the occlusion of the Mississippi, shews that the probable consequences of the measure perplex him extremely. It was nevertheless conceived by the instructed delegations to be their duty to press a revocation of the step taken, in some form which [360] would least offend Spain, and least irritate the patrons of the vote of seven States. Accordingly a motion was made to the following effect—that the present state of the negotiation with Spain, and of the affairs of the United States, rendered it expedient that you should proceed, under a special commission, to Madrid, for the purpose of making such representations as might at once impress on that Court our friendly disposition and induce it to relax on the contested points; and that the proper communications and explanations should be made to Guardoqui relative to this change in the mode of conducting the negotiation. This motion was referred to Mr. Jay, whose report disapproves of it. In this state the matter lies. Eight States only being present, no effective vote is to be expected. It may, notwithstanding, be incumbent on us to try some question which will at least mark the paucity of States who abet the obnoxious project. Massachusetts and New York alone, of the present States, are under that description; and Connecticut and New Hampshire alone of the absent. Maryland and South Carolina have hitherto been on the right side. Their future conduct is somewhat problematical. The opinion of New Hampshire is only conjectured. The conversion of Rhode Island countenances a hope that she too may, in this instance, desert the New England standard.

The prospect of a full and respectable Convention grows stronger every day. Rhode Island alone has refused to send Deputies. Maryland has probably appointed by this time. Of Connecticut alone doubts are entertained. The anti-federal party in that State [361] is numerous and persevering. It is said that the elections which are now going on are rather discouraging to the advocates of the Convention. Pennsylvania has added Dr. Franklin to her deputation. There is some ground to calculate on the attendance of General Washington. Our Governor, Mr. Wythe, Mr. Blair, and Col. Mason will pretty certainly attend. The last, I am informed, is renouncing his errors on the subject of the Confederation, and means to take an active part in the amendment of it. Mr. Henry pretty soon resigned the undertaking. General Nelson was put into his place, who has also declined. He was succeeded by Mr. R. H. Lee, who followed his example. Doctor M’Clurg has been since appointed, and as he was on the spot must have been previously consulted.



April, 1787.mad. mss.



Observations by J. M. (A copy taken by permission by Danl.Vices of the Political system of the U. States.

Carroll & sent to Chs Carroll of Carrollton.)

1. This evil has been so fully experienced both during the war and since the peace, results so naturally from the number and independent authority of the States and has been so uniformly exemplified in every similar Confederacy,1. Failure of the States to comply with the Constitutional requisitions.

that it may be considered as not less radically and permanently inherent in than it is fatal to the object of the present system.

2. Encroachments by the States on the federal authority.

2. Examples of this are numerous and repetitions may be foreseen in almost every case where any favorite object of a State shall present a temptation. Among these examples are the wars and treaties of Georgia with the Indians. The unlicensed compacts between [362] Virginia and Maryland, and between Pena. & N. Jersey—the troops raised and to be kept up by Massts.

3. Violations of the law of nations and of treaties.

3. From the number of Legislatures, the sphere of life from which most of their members are taken, and the circumstances under which their legislative business is carried on, irregularities of this kind must frequently happen. Accordingly not a year has passed without instances of them in some one or other of the States. The Treaty of Peace—the treaty with France—the treaty with Holland have each been violated. [See the complaints to Congress on these subjects.] The causes of these irregularities must necessarily produce frequent violations of the law of nations in other respects.

As yet foreign powers have not been rigorous in animadverting on us. This moderation, however cannot be mistaken for a permanent partiality to our faults, or a permanent security agst those disputes with other nations, which being among the greatest of public calamities, it ought to be least in the power of any part of the community to bring on the whole.

4. Trespasses of the States on the rights of each other.

4. These are alarming symptoms, and may be daily apprehended as we are admonished by daily experience. See the law of Virginia restricting foreign vessels to certain ports—of Maryland in favor of vessels belonging to her own citizens—of N. York in favor of the same—

Paper money, instalments of debts, occlusion of Courts, making property a legal tender, may likewise be deemed aggressions on the rights of other States. As the Citizens of every State aggregately taken stand more or less in the relation of Creditors or debtors, to the Citizens of every other State, Acts of the debtor State in favor of debtors, affect the Creditor State, in the same manner as they do its own citizens who are relatively creditors towards other citizens. This remark may be extended to foreign nations. If the exclusive regulation of the value and alloy of coin was properly delegated to the federal authority, the policy of it equally requires a controul on the States in the cases above mentioned. It must have been meant 1. to preserve uniformity in the circulating medium throughout the nation. 2. to prevent those frauds on the citizens of other States, and the subjects of foreign powers, which might disturb the tranquillity at home, or involve the Union in foreign contests.

[363]

The practice of many States in restricting the commercial intercourse with other States, and putting their productions and manufactures on the same footing with those of foreign nations, though not contrary to the federal articles, is certainly adverse to the spirit of the Union, and tends to beget retaliating regulations, not less expensive and vexatious in themselves than they are destructive of the general harmony.

5. Want of concert in matters where common interest requires it.

5. This defect is strongly illustrated in the state of our commercial affairs. How much has the national dignity, interest, and revenue, suffered from this cause? Instances of inferior moment are the want of uniformity in the laws concerning naturalization & literary property; of provision for national seminaries, for grants of incorporation for national purposes, for canals and other works of general utility, wch may at present be defeated by the perverseness of particular States whose concurrence is necessary.

6. Want of Guaranty to the States of their Constitutions & laws against internal violence.

6. The confederation is silent on this point and therefore by the second article the hands of the federal authority are tied. According to Republican Theory, Right and power being both vested in the majority, are held to be synonimous. According to fact and experience a minority may in an appeal to force, be an overmatch for the majority. 1. if the minority happen to include all such as possess the skill and habits of military life, & such as possess the great pecuniary resources, one-third only may conquer the remaining two-thirds. 2. one-third of those who participate in the choice of the rulers, may be rendered a majority by the accession of those whose poverty excludes them from a right of suffrage, and who for obvious reasons will be more likely to join the standard of sedition than that of the established Government. 3. where slavery exists the republican Theory becomes still more fallacious.

7. Want of sanction to the laws, and of coercion in the Government of the Confederacy.

7. A sanction is essential to the idea of law, as coercion is to that of Government. The federal system being destitute of both, wants the great vital principles of a Political Consttildeution. Under the form of such a constitution, it is in fact nothing more than a treaty of amity of commerce and of alliance, between independent and Sovereign States. From what [364] cause could so fatal an omission have happened in the articles of Confederation? from a mistaken confidence that the justice, the good faith, the honor, the sound policy, of the several legislative assemblies would render superfluous any appeal to the ordinary motives by which the laws secure the obedience of individuals: a confidence which does honor to the enthusiastic virtue of the compilers, as much as the inexperience of the crisis apologizes for their errors. The time which has since elapsed has had the double effect, of increasing the light and tempering the warmth, with which the arduous work may be revised. It is no longer doubted that a unanimous and punctual obedience of 13 independent bodies, to the acts of the federal Government ought not to be calculated on. Even during the war, when external danger supplied in some degree the defect of legal & coercive sanctions, how imperfectly did the States fulfil their obligations to the Union? In time of peace, we see already what is to be expected. How indeed could it be otherwise? In the first place, Every general act of the Union must necessarily bear unequally hard on some particular member or members of it, secondly the partiality of the members to their own interests and rights, a partiality which will be fostered by the courtiers of popularity, will naturally exaggerate the inequality where it exists, and even suspect it where it has no existence, thirdly a distrust of the voluntary compliance of each other may prevent the compliance of any, although it should be the latent disposition of all. Here are causes & pretexts which will never fail to render federal measures abortive. If the laws of the States were merely recommendatory to their citizens, or if they were to be rejudged by County authorities, what security, what probability would exist, that they would be carried into execution? Is the security or probability greater in favor of the acts of Congs. which depending for their execution on the will of the State legislatures, wch are tho’ nominally authoritative, in fact recommendatory only?

8. Want of ratification by the people of the articles of Confederation.

8. In some of the States the Confederation is recognized by, and forms a part of the Constitution. In others however it has received no other sanction than that of the legislative authority. From this defect two evils result: 1. Whenever a law of a State [365] happens to be repugnant to an act of Congress, particularly when the latter [former] is of posterior date to the former, [latter] it will be at least questionable whether the latter [former] must not prevail; and as the question must be decided by the Tribunals of the State, they will be most likely to lean on the side of the State.

2. As far as the union of the States is to be regarded as a league of sovereign powers, and not as a political Constitution by virtue of which they are become one sovereign power, so far it seems to follow from the doctrine of compacts, that a breach of any of the articles of the Confederation by any of the parties to it, absolves the other parties from their respective Obligations, and gives them a right if they chuse to exert it, of dissolving the Union altogether.

9. Multiplicity of laws in the several States.

9. In developing the evils which viciate the political system of the U S., it is proper to include those which are found within the States individually, as well as those which directly affect the States collectively, since the former class have an indirect influence on the general malady and must not be overlooked in forming a compleat remedy. Among the evils then of our situation may well be ranked the multiplicity of laws from which no State is exempt. As far as laws are necessary to mark with precision the duties of those who are to obey them, and to take from those who are to administer them a discretion which might be abused, their number is the price of liberty. As far as laws exceed this limit, they are a nuisance; a nuisance of the most pestilent kind. Try the Codes of the several States by this test, and what a luxuriancy of legislation do they present. The short period of independency has filled as many pages as the century which preceded it. Every year, almost every session, adds a new volume. This may be the effect in part, but it can only be in part, of the situation in which the revolution has placed us. A review of the several Codes will shew that every necessary and useful part of the least voluminous of them might be compressed into one tenth of the compass, and at the same time be rendered ten fold as perspicuous.

10. mutability of the laws of the States.

10. This evil is intimately connected with the former yet deserves a distinct notice, as it emphatically denotes a vicious legislation. We daily see laws repealed or superseded, before any trial can have been made [366] of their merits, and even before a knowledge of them can have reached the remoter districts within which they were to operate. In the regulations of trade this instability becomes a snare not only to our citizens, but to foreigners also.

11. Injustice of the laws of the States.

11. If the multiplicity and mutability of laws prove a want of wisdom, their injustice betrays a defect still more alarming: more alarming not merely because it is a greater evil in itself; but because it brings more into question the fundamental principle of republican Government, that the majority who rule in such governments are the safest Guardians both of public Good and private rights. To what causes is this evil to be ascribed?

These causes lie 1. in the Representative bodies. 2. in the people themselves.

1. Representative appointments are sought from 3 motives. 1. ambition. 2. personal interest. 3. public good. Unhappily the two first are proved by experience to be most prevalent. Hence the candidates who feel them, particularly, the second, are most industrious, and most successful in pursuing their object: and forming often a majority in the legislative Councils, with interested views, contrary to the interest and views of their constituents, join in a perfidious sacrifice of the latter to the former. A succeeding election it might be supposed, would displace the offenders, and repair the mischief. But how easily are base and selfish measures, masked by pretexts of public good and apparent expediency? How frequently will a repetition of the same arts and industry which succeeded in the first instance, again prevail on the unway to misplace their confidence?

How frequently too will the honest but unenlightened representative be the dupe of a favorite leader, veiling his selfish views under the professions of public good, and varnishing his sophistical arguments with the glowing colours of popular eloquence?

2. A still more fatal if not more frequent cause, lies among the people themselves. All civilized societies are divided into different interests and factions, as they happen to be creditors or debtors—rich or poor—husbandmen, merchants or manufacturers—members of different religious sects—followers of different political leaders—inhabitants of different districts—owners of different [367] kinds of property &c &c. In republican Government the majority however composed, ultimately give the law. Whenever therefore an apparent interest or common passion unites a majority what is to restrain them from unjust violations of the rights and interests of the minority, or of individuals? Three motives only 1. a prudent regard to their own good as involved in the general and permanent good of the community. This consideration although of decisive weight in itself, is found by experience to be too often unheeded. It is too often forgotten, by nations as well as by individuals, that honesty is the best policy. 2dly. respect for character. However strong this motive may be in individuals, it is considered as very insufficient to restrain them from injustice. In a multitude its efficacy is diminished in proportion to the number which is to share the praise or the blame. Besides, as it has reference to public opinion, which within a particular Society, is the opinion of the majority, the standard is fixed by those whose conduct is to be measured by it. The public opinion without the Society will be little respected by the people at large of any Country. Individuals of extended views, and of national pride, may bring the public proceedings to this standard, but the example will never be followed by the multitude. Is it to be imagined that an ordinary citizen or even Assemblyman of R. Island in estimating the policy of paper money, ever considered or cared, in what light the measure would be viewed in France or Holland; or even in Massts or Connect? It was a sufficient temptation to both that it was for their interest; it was a sufficient sanction to the latter that it was popular in the State; to the former, that it was so in the neighbourhood. 3dly. will Religion the only remaining motive be a sufficient restraint? It is not pretended to be such on men individually considered. Will its effect be greater on them considered in an aggregate view? quite the reverse. The conduct of every popular assembly acting on oath, the strongest of religious ties, proves that individuals join without remorse in acts, against which their consciences would revolt if proposed to them under the like sanction, separately in their closets. When indeed Religion is kindled into enthusiasm, its force like that of other passions, is increased by the sympathy of a multitude. But enthusiasm is only a temporary state of religion, [368] and while it lasts will hardly be seen with pleasure at the helm of Government. Besides as religion in its coolest state is not infallible, it may become a motive to oppression as well as a restraint from injustice. Place three individuals in a situation wherein the interest of each depends on the voice of the others; and give to two of them an interest opposed to the rights of the third? Will the latter be secure? The prudence of every man would shun the danger. The rules & forms of justice suppose & guard against it. Will two thousand in a like situation be less likely to encroach on the rights of one thousand? The contrary is witnessed by the notorious factions & oppressions which take place in corporate towns limited as the opportunities are, and in little republics when uncontrouled by apprehensions of external danger. If an enlargement of the sphere is found to lessen the insecurity of private rights, it is not because the impulse of a common interest or passion is less predominant in this case with the majority; but because a common interest or passion is less apt to be felt and the requisite combinations less easy to be formed by a great than by a small number. The Society becomes broken into a greater variety of interests, of pursuits of passions, which check each other, whilst those who may feel a common sentiment have less opportunity of communication and concert. It may be inferred that the inconveniences of popular States contrary to the prevailing Theory, are in proportion not to the extent, but to the narrowness of their limits.

The great desideratum in Government is such a modification of the sovereignty as will render it sufficiently neutral between the different interests and factions, to controul one part of the society from invading the rights of another, and at the same time sufficiently controuled itself, from setting up an interest adverse to that of the whole Society. In absolute Monarchies the prince is sufficiently, neutral towards his subjects, but frequently sacrifices their happiness to his ambition or his avarice. In small Republics, the sovereign will is sufficiently controuled from such a sacrifice of the entire Society, but is not sufficiently neutral towards the parts composing it. As a limited monarchy tempers the evils of an absolute one; so an extensive Republic meliorates the administration of a small Republic.

[369]

An auxiliary desideratum for the melioration of the Republican form is such a process of elections as will most certainly extract from the mass of the society the purest and noblest characters which it contains; such as will at once feel most strongly the proper motives to pursue the end of their appointment, and be most capable to devise the proper means of attaining it.





OF ANCIENT & MODERN CONFEDERACIES.1mad. mss.




Lycian Confederacy.

In this confederacy the number of votes allotted to each member was proportioned to its pecuniary contributions. The Judges and Town magistrates were elected by the general authority in like proportion.

See Montesquieu2 who prefers this mode.

The name of a federal republic may be refused to Lycia which Montesquieu cites as an example in which the importance of the members determined the proportion of their votes in the general Councils. The Gryson3 League is a juster example. Code de l’Hum4 Confederation.

Lyciorum quoque ανομιαν celebrat Strabo: de quâ pauca libet heic subjungere. Fuêre eorum urbes XXIII, distinctæ in classes tres pro modo virium. In primâ classe censebantur maximæ sex, in alterâ mediæ, numero nobis incerto, in tertiâ reliquæ omnes, quarum fortuna minima. Et singulæ quidem urbes hæ domi res suas curabant, magistratus suos, ordinemque civilem suum habebant: universæ tamen in unum coëuntes unam communem rempublicam constituebant, concilioque utebantur uno, velut, senatu majore. In eo de bello, de pace, de fœderibus, denique de rerum Lyciacarum summâ deliberabant et statuebant. Coibant vero in concilium hoc ex singulis urbibus missi [370] cum potestate ferendi suffragii: utebanturque eâ in re jure æquissimo. Nam quælibet urbs primæ classis habebat jus suffragiorum trium, secundæ duorum, tertiæ unius. Eademque proportione tributa quoque conferebant, et munia alia obibant. Quemadmodum enim ratio ipsa dictat, et poscit æquitas, ut plura qui possident, et cæteris ditiores sunt, plura etiam in usus communes, et reipublicæ subsidia conferant, sic quoque eadem æquitatits regula postulat, ut in statuendo de re communi iidem illi plus aliis possint: præsertim cum eorundem magis intersit rempublicam esse salvam quam tenuiorum. Locum concilii hujus non habebant fixum & certum, sed, ex omnibus urbem deligebant, quæ videbatur pro tempore commodissima. Concilio coacto primum designabant Lyciarcham principem totius Reipublicæ, dein magistratus alios creabant partes reipublicæ administraturos demum judicia publica constituebant. Atque hæc omnia faciebant servatâ proportione eâdem, ut nulla omnino urbs præteriretur munerumve aut honorum horum non fieret particeps. Et hoc jus illibatum mansit Lyciis ad id usque tempus, quo Romani assumpto Asiæ imperio magnâ ex parte sui arbitrii id fecerunt.—Ubbo Emmius de Republica Lyciorum in Asia. [Apud Grovonii Thes., iv, 597.]1

[371]

Amphyctionic Confederacy.

Instituted by Amphyction son of Deucalion King of Athens 1522 years Ant.: Christ.: Code De l’Humanité.

Seated first at Thermopylæ, then at Delphos, afterwards at these places alternately. It met half yearly to wit in the Spring & Fall, besides extraordinary occasions. Id. In the latter meetings, all such of the Greeks as happened to be at Delphos on a religious errand were admitted to deliberate, but not to vote. Encyclopedie.1

The number and names of the confederated Cities differently reported. The Union seems to have consisted originally of the Delphians and their neighbors only, and by degrees to have comprehended all Greece. 10, 11, 12, are the different numbers of original members mentioned by different Authors. Code de l’Humanité.

Each city sent two deputies one to attend particularly to Religious matters—the other to civil and criminal matters affecting individuals—both to decide on matters of a general nature. Id. Sometimes more than two were sent, but they had two votes only. Encyclop.

The Amphyctions took an oath mutually to defend and protect the united Cities—to inflict vengeance on those who should sacrilegiously despoil the temple of Delphos—to punish the violators of this oath—and never to divert the water courses of any of the Amphyctionic Cities either in peace or in war. Code de l’Hum. Æschines orat: vs. Ctesip.

The Amphyctionic Council was instituted by way of defence and terror agst the Barbarians. Dictre de Treviux.

[372]

Foedral Authority.

The Amphyctions had full power to propose and resolve whatever they judged useful to Greece. Encycop Pol. Œcon.

1. They judged in the last resort all differences between the Amphyctionic cities. Code de l’Hum.

2. mulcted the aggressors. Id.

3. employed whole force of Greece agst such as refused to execute its decrees. Id. & Plutarch, Cimon.

4. guarded the immense Riches of the Temple of Delphos, and decided controversies between the inhabitants and those who came to consult the Oracle. Encyclop.

5. superintended the Pythian games. Code de l’Hum.

6. exercised right of admitting new members. See decree admitting Philip, in Demosthenes on Crown.

7. Appointed General of the federal troops with full powers to carry their decrees into execution. Ibid.

8. Declared & carried on war. Code de l’Human.

Strabo says that the Council of the Amphyctions was dissolved in the time of Augustus; but Pausanias, who lived in the time of Antoninus Pius says it remained entire then, and that the number of Amphyctions was thirty. Potter’s Gre. Ant: Vol. 1, p. 90.1

The institution declined on the admission of Phil and in the time of the Roman Emperors, the functions of the Council were reduced to the administration & police of the Temple. This limited authority expired only with the Pagan Religion. Code de l’Human.

Vices of the Constitution.

It happened but too often that the Deputies of the strongest Cities awed and corrupted those of the weaker, and that Judgment went in favor of the most powerful party. Id. see also Plutarch’s Themistocles.

Greece was the victim of Philip. If her Confederation had been stricter, & been persevered in, she would never have yielded to Macedon, and might have proved a Barrier to the vast projects of Rome. Code de l’Hum.

Philip had two votes in the Council. Rawleigh Hist: World, lib. 4, c. 1, Sec. 7.

[373]

The execution of the Amphyctionic powers was very different from the Theory. Id.—It did not restrain the parties from warring agst each other. Athens & Sparta were members during their conflicts. Quer. whether Thucidides or Xenophon in their Histories ever allude to the Amphyctionic authority which ought to have kept the peace?

See Gillies’ Hist. Greece, particularly Vol. II. p. 345.

Achæan Confederacy

In 124 olympd. the Patrians & Dymæans joined first in this league. Polyb. lib. 2, c. 3.1

This League consisted at first of three small Cities. Aratus added Sicyon, and drew in many other Cities of Achaia & Peloponnesus. Of these he formed a Republic of a peculiar sort. Code de l’Human.

It consisted of twelve cities, and was produced by the necessity of such a defence agst the Etolians. Encyclo. Pol. Œ. & Polyb. lib. 2.

The members enjoyed a perfect equality, each of them sending the number of deputies to the Senate. Id.

The Senate assembled in the Spring & Fall, and was also convened on extraordinary occasions by two Pretors charged with the administration during the recess, but who could execute nothing witht the consent of the Inspectors. Id.

Fœderal Authority

1. The Senate composed of the deputies made war & peace. D’Albon I page 270

2. Appointed a Captain General annually. Co. d’Hum.

3. Transferred the power of deciding to ten Citizens taken from the deputies, the rest retaining a right of consultation only. Id.

4. Sent and received Ambassadors. D’Albon. Ibid.

5. appointed a prime Minister. D’Albon. Ibid.

6. Contracted foreign Alliances. Code de l’Hum.

7. Confederated Cities in a manner forced to receive the same laws & customs weights & measures: Id. & Polyb. lib. 2 cap. 3, yet considered as having each their independent police & Magistrates. Encyclop. Pol. Œcon.

[374]

8. Penes hoc concilium erat summum rerum arbitrium, ex cujus decreto bella suscipiebantur, & finiebantur, pax conveniebat, fœdera feriebantur & solvebantur, leges fiebant ratæ aut irritæ. Hujus etiam erat Magistratus toti Societati communes eligere, legationes decernere &c. Regebant concilium prætor præcipue, si præsens esset, et magistratus alii, quos Achæi δημιουργοὺς nuncupabant. Ubbo Emmius.

Hi numero X erant suffragiis legitimi concilii, quod verno tempore habebatur, electi ex universa societate prudentia præcipui, quorum concilio potissimum prætor ex lege utebatur. Horum potestas & dignitas maxima erat post ipsum Prætorem, quos idcirco Livius, Polybium sequens, summum Achæorum magistratum appellabat. Cum his igitur de negociis gravioribus in concilio agitandis Prætor præconsultabat, nec de iis, nisi in id pars major consentiret, licebat ad consilium referre. Id.

Ista vero imprimis memorabilis lex est, vinculum societatis Achaicæ maximé stringens, et concordiam muniens, quâ interdictum fuit, ne cui civitati Societatis hujus participi fas esset, seorsim ad exteros ullos mittere legatos, non ad Romanos, non ad alios. Et hoc expressim inserta fuit pactis conventis Achæorum cum populo Romano. . . . Omnium autem laudatissima lex apud eos viguit &c., quâ vetitum, ne quis omnino, sive privatæ conditionis, seu magistratum gerens, ullam ob causam, quæcunque etiam sit, dona a Rege aliquo caperet.1 Id.

[375]

Vices of the Constitution.

The defect of subjection in the members to the general authority ruined the whole Body. The Romans seduced the members from the League by representing that it violated their sovereignty. Code de l’Human.

After the death of Alexander, this Union was dissolved by various dissentions, raised chiefly thro’ the acts of the Kings of Macedon. Every City was now engaged in a separate interest & no longer acted in concert. Polyb. lib 2, cap. 3. After in 142 Olympd, they saw their error & began to think of returning to their former State. This was the time when Pyrhus invaded Italy. Ibid.

Helvetic Confederacy.

Commenced in 1308 by the temporary, and in 1315 by the perpetual Union of Uri, Switz & Underwald, for the defence of their liberties agst. the invasions of the House of Austria. In 1315 the Confederacy included 8 Cantons, and 1513 the number of 13 was compleated by the accession of Appenzel. Code de l’Hum.

The General Diet representing the United Cantons is composed of two deputies from each. Some of their allies as the Abbi St. Gall &c., are allowed by long usage to attend by their deputies. Id.

All general Diets are held at such time & place as Zurich, which is first in rank & the depository of the common archives, shall name in a circular summons. But the occasion of annual conferences for the administration of their dependent bailages has fixed the same time, to wit the feast of St. John, for the General Diet. And the city of Frauenfeld in Turgovia is now the place of Meeting. Formerly it was the City of Baden. Id.

The Diet is opened by a Complimentary Address of the first Deputy of each Canton by turns, called the Helvetic salutation. It consists in a congratulatory review of circumstances & events favorable to their common interest—and exhortations to Union and patriotism.

[376]

The deputies of the first canton Zurich propose the matters to be discussed. Questions are decided by plurality of voices. In case of division, the Bailiff of Turgovia has the casting one. The Session of the Diet continues about a month. Id.

After the objects of universal concern are despatched, such of the deputies whose Constituents have no share in the dependent bailages, withdraw, and the Diet then becomes a representation of the Cantons to whom these bailages belong, and proceeds to the consideration of the business relating thereto. Id.

Extraordinary Diets for incidental business or giving audience to foreign ministers may be called at any time by any one of the Cantons or by any foreign minister who will defray the expense of meeting. Seldom a year without an extraordinary Diet. Stanyan’s Switzerland.

There is an annual Diet of 12 Cantons by one deputy from each for the affairs of the Ultramontane bailages. Code de l’Human.

Particular Cantons also have their diets for their particular affairs, the time & place for whose meeting are settled by their particular Treaties.

All public affairs are now treated not in Genl Diet, but in the particular Assemblies of Protestant & Catholic Cantons. D’Albon.

Foederal Authority

The title of Republic and Sovereign State improperly given to this Confederacy, which has no concentered authority the Diets being only a Congress of Delegates from some or all of the Cantons, and having no fixt objects that are national. Dictionaire de Suisse.

The 13 Cantons do not make one Commonwealth like the United Provinces, but are so many independent Comtildeonwealths in strict alliance. There is not so much as any common instrument by which they are all reciprocally bound together; The 3 primitive Cantons alone being each directly allied to the other twelve. The others in many instances are connected1 indirectly only, as allies of allies. In this mode any one Canton may draw [377] in all the others to make a common cause in its defence. Stanyan.

The confederacy has no common Treasury—no common troops—no common Coin—no common Judicatory—nor any other common mark of sovereignty. Id.

The General Diet cannot terminate any interesting affair without special instructions, & powers, & the deputies accordingly take most matters proposed ad referendum. Code de l’Hum.

The Cantons individually exercise the right of sending & receiving ambassadors—making Treaties—coining money—proscribing the money of one another—prohibiting the importation and exportation of merchandise—furnishing troops to foreign States, and doing everything else which does not wound the liberty of any other Canton. Excepting a few cases specified in the Alliances and which directly concern the object of the league, no Canton is subject to the Resolutions of the plurality. Id.

The only establishment truly national is that of a federal army, as regulated in 1668, and which is no more than an eventual plan of defence adopted among so many allied States. Id.

1. The League consists in a perpetual defensive engagement agst external attacks and internal troubles. It may be regarded as an axiom in the public Law of the confederacy, that the federal engagements are precedent to all other political engagements of the Cantons. Id.

2. Another axiom is that there are no particular or common possessions of the Cantons for the defence of which the others are not bound as Guarantees or auxiliaries of Guarantees. Id.

3. All disputes are to be submitted to Neutral Cantons, who may employ force if necessary in execution of their decrees. Id. Each party to choose 4 Judges who may in case of disagreement chuse umpire, and these under oath of impartiality to pronounce definitive sentence, which all Cantons to enforce.—D’Albon. & Stan.

4. No Canton ought to form new alliances without the consent of the others [this was stipulated in consequence of an improper alliance in 1442 by Zurich with the House of Austria.] Id.

5. It is an essential Object of the league to preserve interior tranquillity by the reciprocal protection of the form of Governmt established in each Canton, so that each is armed with the force [378] of the whole Corps for the suppression of rebellions & Revolts, and the History of Switzerland affords frequent instances of mutual succors for these purposes. Dictre. de Suisse.

6. The Cantons are bound not to give shelter to fugitives from Justice, in consequence of which each Canton can at this day banish malefactors from all the territories of the League. Id.

7. Tho’ each Canton may prohibit the exportation & importation of merchandize, it must allow it to pass thro’ from one neighboring Canton to another without any augmentation of the tolls. Code de l’Hum.

8. In claiming succors agst foreign powers, the 8 Elder Cantons have a more extensive right than the 5 Junior ones. The former may demand them of one another without explaining the motives of the quarrel. The latter cannot intermeddle but as mediators or auxiliaries; nor can they commence hostilities without the sanction of the Confederates; and if cited by their adversaries, cannot refuse to accept the other Cantons for arbiters or Judges. Dictre. de Suisse.

9. In general each Canton is to pay its own forces without compensation from the whole or the succoured party. But in case a siege is to be formed for the benefit of a particular Canton, this is to defray the expence of it, and if for the common benefit, each is to pay its just proportion. D’Albon. On no pretext is a Canton to be forced to march its troops out of the limits of Switzerland. Stanyan.

10. Foreign Ministers from different Nations reside in different Cantons. Such of them as have letters of credence for the whole Confederacy address them to Zurich the chief Canton. The Ambassador of France, who has most to do with the Confederacy is complimented at his Quarters by deputies from the whole body.

Vices of the Constitution

1. disparity in size of Cantons

2. different principles of Governmt. in difft. Cantons

3. intolerance in Religion

4. weakness of the Union. The comtildeon bailages wch. served as a cement, sometimes become occasions of quarrels. Dictre. de Suisse.

In a treaty in 1683 with Victor Amadœus of Savoy, it is stipulated [379] that he shall interpose as Mediator in disputes between the Cantons, and if necessary use force agst the party refusing to submit to the sentence. Dictre. de Suisse.—a striking proof of the want of authority in the whole over its parts.

Belgic Confederacy.

established in 1679 by the Treaty called the Union of Utrecht. Code de l’Humanité.

The provinces came into this Union slowly. Guelderland the smallest of them made many difficulties. Even some of the Cities & towns pretended to annex conditions to their acceding. Id.

When the Union was originally established a committee composed of deputies from each province was appointed to regulate affairs, and to convoke the provinces according to art. XIX of the Treaty. Out of this Committee grew the States General Id.—who strictly speaking are only the Representatives of the States General who amount to 800 members. Temple, p. 112.1

The number of Deputies to the States General from each province not limited, but have only a single voice. They amount commonly, all together to 40 or 50. They hold their seats, some for life, some for 6 3 & 1 years, & those of Groninguen & Overyssel during pleasure. They are paid, but very moderately, by their respective constituents, and are amenable to their Tribunals only. Code de l’Hum. No military man is deputable to the States Genl Id.

Ambassrs. of Republic have session & deliberation but no suffrage in States Genl. Id. The grand pensioner of Holland as ordinary deputy from Holland, attends always in the States Genl, & makes the propositions of that Province to States Gl. Id.

They sit constantly at the Hague since 1593, and every day in the week except Saturday & Sunday. The States of Holland in granting this residence, reserve by way of protestation, the rights, the honors & prerogatives belonging to them as sovereigns of the Province; yielding the States Genl. only a rank in certain public ceremonies. Id.

The eldest deputy from each province presides for a week by turns. The president receives letters &c. from the Ministers of the Republic at foreign Courts, and of foreign Ministers residing [380] at the Hague, as well as of all petitions presented to the Assembly; all which he causes to be read by the Secretary. Id.

The Secretary besides correcting & recording the Resolutions prepares & despatches instructions to Ministers abroad—& letters to foreign powers. He assists also at conferences held with foreign Ministers & there gives his voice. He has a deputy when there is not a second Secretary. The Agent of the States Genl is charged with the Archives and is also employed on occasions of receiving foreign Ministers or sending Messages to them. Id.

Federal Authority.

The avowed objects of the Treaty of Union. 1. to fortify the Union—2. to repel the common enemy. Id.

The Union is to be perpetual in the same manner as if the Confederates formed one province only, without prejudice however to the privileges & rights of each province & City. Id.

Differences between provinces & between Cities are to be settled by the ordinary Judges—by arbitration—by amicable agreement, without the interference of other provinces otherwise than by way of accommodation. The Stadtholder is to decide such differences in the last resort. Id.

No change to be made in the articles of Union, without unanimous consent of the parties & everything done contrary to them to be null & void. Id.

States General. 1. execute, without consulting their constituents, treaties & alliances already formed. Id.

2. take oaths from Generals & Governrs, and appoint Field Deputies.

3. The collection of duties on imports & exports and the expedition of Safe Conducts are in their name & by their officers. Id.

4. they superintend & examine accounts of the E. India Company. Id.

5. inspect the Mint—appoint les Maitres de la Monnoye—fix la taille & la valeur of the Coin, having always regard to the regular rights of the provinces within their own Territories. Id.

6. Appoint a Treasurer General & Receiver General of the Quotas furnished by the Provinces. Id.

7. elect out of a double nomination, the fiscal & other officers within the departments of the admiralties, except that the High [381] officers of the fleet are appointed by the Admiral General, to whom the maritime provinces have ceded this right. Id.—The Navy supported by duties on foreign trade, appropriated thereto by the maritime provinces, for the benefit of the whole Republic. Id.

8. They govern as sovereigns, the dependent territories, according to the several capitulations. Id.

9. they form Committees of their own body of a member from each deputation, for foreign affairs—finances marine—& other matters. At all these conferences the Grand Pensioner of Holland & the Secretary of the States Genl attend and have a deciding voice. Id.

10. Appt & receive Ambassrs—negociate wth foreign powers—deliberate on war—peace—alliances—the raising forces—care of fortifications—military affairs to a certain degree—the equipment of fleets—building of ships—directions concerning money. Id. But they can neither make peace—nor war—nor truces—nor treaties—nor raise troops—nor impose taxes, nor do other acts requiring unanimity without consulting & obtaining the sanction of the Provinces. Id. Coining money also requires unanimity & express sanction of provinces Temple. repealing an old law on same footing. Burrish. Batav illustrata. In points not enumerated in this article plurality of voices decides. Code de l’Hum.

11. composition & publication of edicts & proclamations relative both to the objects expressed in the articles of Union and to the measures taken for the comtildeon good, are in the name of the States, and altho’ they are addressed to the States of the Provinces who announce them with their sanction, still it is in the name of the States Genl that obedience is required of all the inhabitants of the provinces. Code de l’Hum.

The Provinces have reserved to themselves.

1. their sovereignty within their own limits in general. Code de l’Hum.

2. the right of coining money, as essential to Sovereignty, but agreed at the same time that the money which sd be current throughout the Republic sd. have the same intrinsic value: To give effect to which regulation a mint is established at the Hague [382] under a chamber which has the inspection of all money struck either in name of States Genl or particular provinces, as also of foreign coin. Id.—Coining money not in provinces or Cities, but in the generality of Union by comtildeon agreement. Temple.

3. Every province raises what money & by what means it pleases, and sends its quota to Receiver General Temple.

The quotas were not settled without great difficulty. Id.

4. the naming to Goverts of Towns within themselves—keeping keys & giving word to Magistrates—a power over troops in all things not military—conferring Cols Comtildeissions & inferior posts in such Regiments as are paid by the provinces respectively—taking oath of fidelity—concerning a revocation of all which the States Genl are not permitted to deliberate. Id.

The Provinces are restricted.

1. from entering into any foreign Treaties without consent of the rest. Code de Hum.

2. from establishing imposts prejudicial to others without general consent. Id.

3. from charging their neighbours with higher duties than their own subjects. Id.

Council of State.—composed of deputies from the provinces in different proportions. 3 of them are for life, the rest generally for 3 years: they vote per capita. Temple.

They are subordinate to the States General, who frequently however consult with them. In matters of war which require secrecy they act of themselves. Military & fiscal matters are the objects of their administration. They vote.

They execute the resolutions of the States Genl., propose requisitions of men & money & superintend the fortifications &c., & the affairs of revenues & Govts., of the conquered possessions. Temple.

Chamber of Accounts, was erected for the ease of the Council of State. It is subordinate to the States Genl, is composed of two deputies from each province, who are changed triennially. They examine and state all accts of the several Receivers—controul and register orders of Council of State disposing of the finances. Id.

College of Admiralty established by the States Genl 1597 is [383] subdivided into five of wch. three are in Holland—one in Zealand—one in Friezland, each composed of 7 deputies, 4 appd. by the province where the admiralty resides & 3 by the other provinces. The vice-Admiral presides in all of them when he is present. Temple.

They take final cognizance of all crimes & prizes at sea; — — — —— of all frauds in customs provide quota of fleets resolved on by States Genl appt. Capts & superior officers of each squadron take final cognizance also of Civil matters within 600 florins—an appeal lying to States Genl for matters beyond that sum. Code de l’Hum. & Temple.

The authority of States Genl. in Admiralty Depmartt is much limited by the influence & privileges of maritime provinces, & the jurisdiction herein is full of confusion & contradiction. Code de l’humanité.

Stadtholder who is now hereditary in his political capacity is authorized 1. to settle differences between provinces, provisionally till other methods can be agreed on, which having never been this prerogative may be deemed a permanent one. Code de l’Hum.

2. Assists at deliberations of States Genl & their particular conferences, recommends & influences appointmt of Ambassadors. Id.

3. has seat & suffrage in Council of State. Id.

4. presiding in the provincial Courts of Justice where his name is prefixed to all public acts. Id.

5. supreme Curator of most of the Universities. Id.

6. As Stadtholder of the provinces has considerable rights partaking of the sovereignty, as appointing town magistrates on presentation made to him of a certain number. Executing provincial decrees &c. Id. & Mably, Etud. de l’hist.

7. gives audiences to Ambassadors & may have Agents with their Sovereigns for his private affairs. Mab. Ibid1

8. exercises power of pardon. Temple.

In his Military capacity as Capt. Genl.

1. commands forces—directs marches—provides for garrisons—& in general regulates military affairs. Code de l’Hum.

2. disposes of all appointmts, from Ensigns to Cols. The [384] Council of State havg. surrendered to him the appointmts within their disposal Id. & the States Genl appt the higher grades on his recomtildeendation. Id.

3. disposes of the Govts &c. of the fortified towns tho’ the comtildeissions issue from the States Genl. Id.

In his Marine capacity as Admiral General. 1. superintends & directs everything relative to naval forces & other affairs within Admiralty. Id.

2. presides in the Admiralties in person or by proxy. Id.

3. Appoints Lieuts. Admirals & officers under them. Id.

4. establishes Councils of war, whose sentences are in the name of the States Genl & his Highness and are not executed till he approves. Id.

The Stadtholder has a general & secret influence on the great machine which cannot be defined. Id.

His Revenue from appointmts. amount to 300,000 florins, to which is to be added his extensive patrimonies. Id.

The standing army of the Republic, 40,000 men.

Vices of the Constitution.

The Union of Utrecht imports an authority in the States Genl seemingly sufficient to secure harmony; but the Jealousy in each province of its sovereignty renders the practice very different from the Theory. Code de l’Hum.

It is clear that the delay occasioned by recurring to seven independent provinces including about 52 voting Cities &c. is a vice in the Belgic Republic which exposes it to the most fatal inconveniences. Accordingly the fathers of their country have endeavored to remedy it in the extraordinary Assemblies of the States Genl. in (1584) in 1651, 1716, 1717, but unhappily without effect. This vice is notwithstanding deplorable. Id.—Among other evils it gives foreign ministers the means of arresting the most important deliberations by gaining a single province or city. This was done by France in 1726, when the Treaty of Hanover was delayed a whole year. In 1688 the States concluded a Treaty of themselves but at the risk of their heads. Id. It is the practice also in matters of contribution or subsidy to pass over this article of the Union, for where delay wd. be dangerous the consenting provinces furnish their quotas without waiting for the others, but [385] by such means the Union is weakened and if often repeated must be dissolved—Id.

Foreign Ministers elude matters taken ad referendum by tampering with the provinces & Cities. Temple p. 116.

Treaty of Union obliges each Province to levy certain contributions. But this article never could probably never will be executed because the inland provinces who have little commerce cannot pay an equal Quota. Burrish, Bat. illustrat:

Deputations from agreeing to disagreeing provinces frequent. Temple.

It is certain that so many independent Corps & interests could not be kept together without such a center of Union as the Stadtholdership, as has been allowed & repeated in so many solemn Acts. Code de Hum.

In the intermission of the Stadtholdership Holland by her Riches & Authority which drew the others into a sort of dependence, supplied the place. Temple.

With such a Governmt. the Union never cd have subsisted, if in effect the provinces had not within themselves a spring capable of quick—ing their tardiness, and impelling them to the same way of thinking. This Spring is the Stadtholder. His prerogatives are immense—1, &c. &c.—A strange effect of human contradictions. Men too jealous to confide their liberty to their representatives who are their equals, abandoned it to a prince who might the more easily abuse it as the affairs of the Republic were important & had not them fixed themselves. Mably Etude d’Hist., 205. 6.

Grotius has sd. that the hatred of his countrymen agst the H of Austria kept them from being destroyed by the vices of their Constitution. Ibid.

The difficulty of procuring unanimity has produced a breach of fundamentals in several instances—Treaty of Westphalia was concluded without consent of Zealand &c D’Albon & Temple—These tend to alter the constitution. D’Albon.

It appears by several articles of the Union that the confederates had formed the design of establishing a Genl tax, [Impôt,] to be administered by the States Genl.. But this design so proper for bracing this happy Union has not been executed. Code de l’Hum.

[386]

Germanic Confederacy—took its present form in the year —.—Code de l’Hum.

The Diet is to be convoked by the Emperor, or on his failure, by the Archbishop of Mentz, with consent of Electors once in ten years at least from the last adjournment, and six months before the time of meeting. Ratisbon is the seat of the Diet since 1663.

The members amount to 285, and compose three Colleges, to wit, that of the Electors—of Princes—of Imperial Cities. The voices amount to 159, of which 153 are individual & 6 collective. The latter are particular to the College of princes and are formed out of 39 prelates &c. and 93 Counts &c. The individual voices are common to the three Colleges, and are given by 9 Electors—94 princes, 33 of the ecclesiastical & 61 of the secular Bench—& 50 Imperial Cities, 13 of the Rhenish, & 37 of the Suabian Bench. The K. of Prussia has nine voices in as many different capacities. Id.

The three Colleges assemble in the same House but in different apartments. Id.

The Emperor as head of the Germanic body is presidt. of the Diet. He & others are represented by proxies at present. Id.

The deliberations are groundd. on propositions from Emperor & commerce in the College of Electors, from whence they pass to that of the princes, & thence to that of the Imperial Cities. They are not resolutions till they have been passed in each. When the Electors & Princes cannot agree, they confer; but do not confer with the Imperial Cities. plurality of voices decide in each College, except in matters of Religion & a few reserved cases, in which according to the Treaty of Westphalia, and the Imperial Capitulations the Empire is divided into the Catholic & Evangelic Corps. Id.

After the Resolutions have passed the three Colleges, they are presented to the Representative of the Emperor, without whose ratification they are null. Id. they are called placita after passing the three Colleges—conclusa after ratification by Emperor. Id.

The Collection of Acts of one Diet is called the Recess, which cannot be made up & have the force of law, till the Close of the Diet. the subsisting diet has not been closed for more than a [387] hundred years, of course it has furnished no effective Resolution, though a great number of Interesting ones have passed. This delay proceeds from the Imperial Court who refuse to grant a Recess, notwithstanding the frequent and pressing applications made for one. Id.

Fœderal Authority.

The powers as well as the organization of the Diet have varied at different times. Antiently it elected as a corps the Emperors and judged of their Conduct. The Golden Bull gives this right to the Electors alone. Antiently it regulated tolls—at present the Electors alone do this. Id.

The Treaty of Westphalia & the capitulations of the Emperors from Charles V downwards, define the present powers of the Diet. These concern—1. Legislation of the Empire—2. War & peace & alliances—3. raising troops—4. contributions—5 construction of fortresses—6 Money—7 Ban of the Empire. 8 Admission of new princes—9. the Supreme tribunals—10. disposition of Grand fiefs & grand Charges—In all these points the Emperor & Diet must concur. Id.

The Ban of the Empire is a sort of proscription by which the disturbers of the public peace are punished. The offenders life & goods are at the mercy of every one, formerly the Emperors themselves pronounced the ban agst. those who offended them. It has been since regulated that no one shall be exposed to the Ban without the examination & consent of the Diet. Encyclop.

By the Ban the party is outlawed, degraded from all his federal rights—his subjects absolved from their allegiance—and his possessions forfeited. Code de l’Hum.

The Ban is incurred when the Emperor or one of the supreme Tribunals address an order to any one, on pain in case of disobedience, of being proscribed ipso facto. Id.

The Circles formerly were in number 6 only. There are now ten. They were instituted for the more effectual preservation of the public peace, and the execution of decrees of Diet & supreme Tribunals against contumacious members, for which purposes they have their particular diets, with the chief prince of the Circle at their head, have particular officers for commanding the forces of the Circle, levy contributions, see that Justice is duly [388] administered—that the coin is not debased—that the customs are not unduly raised.—Savage vol. 2 p. 35.

If a Circle fail to send its due succours, it is to pay damages suffered therefrom to its neighbours. If a member of the circle refuse, the Col. of the Circle is to admonish, & if this be insufficient, the delinquent party is to be compelled under a sentence from the Imperial Chamber. Id.

Aulic Council [established by Diet in 1512. Encyclop.,] composed of members appointed by the Emperor. Code de l’Hum.

Its cognizance is restrained to matters above 2,000 Crowns; is concurrent with the jurisdiction of the Imperial Chamber in controversies between the States—also in those of subjects of the Empire by way of appeal from subaltern Tribunals of the Empire, and from sovereign tribunals of princes. Id.—Arms are to be used for carrying its decrees into execution, as was done in 1718 by the troops of the Circle of upper Rhine in a controversy between Landgrave of Hesse Cassel & Prince of Hesse of Rhinfitz. Id.

Imperial Chamber, established in 1495 by the Diet as a means of public peace, by deciding controversies between members of the Empire. Code de l’Hum.

This is the first Tribunal of the Empire. It has an appellate jurisdiction in all Civil, and fiscal causes or where the public peace may be concerned. It has a concurrent jurisdiction with the Aulic Council; and causes cannot be removed from one to the other. Id.

The Judges of this Tribunal are appointed partly by the Emperor—partly by Electors—partly by circles—are supported by all the States of the Empire, excepting the Emperor. They are badly paid, though great salaries are annexed to their offices. Id.

In every action, real or personal—The Diet—Imperial Chamber and Aulic Council are so many supreme Courts to which none of the States can demur. The jurisprudence, by which they govern themselves, are according to the subject matter—1. the provincial laws of Germany 2. the Scripture—3 the law of nature—4 law of Nations—5 the Roman law—6 the canon law—7 the fœdal law of the Lombards. Id.

[389]

Members of Diet as such are subject in all public affairs to be judged by Emperor & Diet,—as individuals in private capacity are subject to Aulic Council & Imperial Chamber. Id.

The members have reserved to themselves the right 1. to enter into war & peace with foreign powers 2 to enter into alliances with foreign powers and with one another, not prejudicial to their engagements to the Empire. Code de ’Hum.—3 to make laws, levy taxes, raise troops, to determine on life & death. Savage. 4 Coin money. Id. 5. exert territorial sovereignty within their limits in their own name. Code de l’Hum. 6. to grant pardons. Savage, p. 44. 7. to furnish their quotas of troops, equipped mounted & armed & to provide for sustenance of them, as if they served at home. Code de l’Hum.

Members of Empire restricted.

1. from entering into Confederacies prejudicial to the Empire.

2. from laying tolls or customs upon bridges, rivers, or passages to which strangers are subject, without consent of the Emperor in full Diet.

3. cannot give any other value to money, nor make any other kind of money, than what is allowed by the Empire. Savage vol. 2, p. 45.

4. (by edict of 1548, particularly) from taking arms one agst another, from doing themselves justice—from affording retreat, much more, assistance to infractors of the public peace; the ban of the Empire being denounced agst. the transgressors of these prohibitions, besides a fine of 2000 marks of gold and loss of regalities.—Code d’Hum.

Emperor.—has the prerogative 1. of exclusively making propositions to the Diet—2 presiding in all Assemblies & Tribunals of the Empire when he chuses—3 of giving suffrage in all affairs treated in the diet—4 of negativing their resolutions—5 of issuing them in his own name—6 of watching over the safety of the Empire—7 of naming Ambassadors to negociate within the Empire as well as at foreign Courts—affairs concerning the Germanic Corps. 8. of re-establishing in good fame persons dishonored by Council of war & civil Tribunals. Code d’Hum.—9 of giving investiture of the principal immediate fiefs of the Empire, wch is not indeed of much consequence—10 of conferring [390] vacant electorates—11 of preventing subjects from being withdrawn from the jurisdiction of their proper Judge—12. Of conferring charges of the Empire. 13 of conferring dignities & titles as of Kings &c.—14 of instituting military orders—15 of granting the dernier resort—16. of judging differences & controversies touching tolls—17. of deciding contests between Catholic & Protestant States touching precedence &c.—Id.—18. of founding Universities within the lands of the States, so far as to make the person endowed with Academic honors therein be regarded as such throughout Germany.—19 of granting all sorts of privileges not injurious to the States of the Empire—20 of establishing great fairs—21 of receiving the droit des Postes generales—22 of striking money, but without augumenting or diminishing its value. 23 of permitting strangers to enlist soldiers, conformably to Recess of 1654. Id. 24. Of receiving and applying Revenues of Empire.—Savage, p. . He cannot make war or peace, nor laws, nor levy taxes nor alter the denomination of money nor weights or measures.—Savage, v. 2, p. 35. The Emperor as such does not properly possess any territory within the Empire, nor derive any revenue for his support. Code de ’Hum.

Vices of the Constitution.

1. The Quotas are complained of & supplied very irregularly & defectively. Code de ’Hum. provision is made by decree of diet for enforcing them, but it is a delicate matter to execute it agst. the powerful members. Id.

2. The establishmt. of Imperial Chamber has not been found an efficacious remedy agst. civil wars. It has committed faults. The Ressortissans have not always been docile. Id.

3. Altho’ the establishmt. of Imperial Chambers &c give a more regular form to the police of the fiefs, it is not to be supposed they are capable of giving a certain force to the laws and maintaining the peace of the Empire if the House of Austria had not acquired power eno’ to maintain itself on the imperial Throne, to make itself respected, to give orders which it might be imprudent to despise, as the laws were therefore despised. Mabley Etude d’ hist., p. 180.

[Jealousy of the Imperial authority seems to have been a great cement of the Confederacy.]



[391]





ORIGIN OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.mad. mss.



A SKETCH NEVER FINISHED NOR APPLIED.1


As the weakness and wants of man naturally lead to an association of individuals under a Common Authority, whereby each may have the protection of the whole against danger from without, and enjoy in safety within, the advantages of social intercourse, and an exchange of the necessaries & comforts of life; in like manner feeble communities, independent of each other, have resorted to a Union, less intimate, but with common Councils, for the common safety agst. powerful neighbors, and for the preservation of justice and peace among themselves. Ancient history furnishes examples of these confederal2 associations, tho’ with a very imperfect account, of their structure, and of the attributes and functions of the presiding Authority. There are examples of modern date also, some of them still existing, the modifications and transactions3 of which are sufficiently known.

It remained for the British Colonies, now United States, of North America, to add to those examples, one of a more interesting character than any of them4 which led to a system without an example5 ancient or modern, a system founded on popular rights, and so combining a federal form with the forms of individual Republics, as may enable each to supply the defects of the other and obtain that advantage of both.

Whilst the Colonies enjoyed the protection of the parent Country as it was called, against foreign danger; and were secured [392] by its superintending controul, against conflicts among themselves, they continued independent of each other, under a common, tho’ limited dependence, on the Parental Authority. When however the growth of the offspring in strength and in wealth, awakened the jealousy and tempted the avidity of the parent, into schemes of usurpation & exaction,1 the obligation was felt by the former of uniting their Counsels and efforts, to avert the impending calamity.

As early as the year 1754, indications having been given of a design2 in the British government to levy contributions on the Colonies, without their consent; a meeting of Colonial deputies took place at Albany, which attempted to introduce a compromising substitute, that might at once satisfy the British requisitions, and save their own rights from violation. The attempt had no other effect, than by bringing these rights into a more conspicuous view, to invigorate the attachment to them, on the one side; and to nourish the haughty & encroaching spirit on the other.

In 1774. The progress made by G. B. in the open assertion of her pretensions, and the apprehended purpose of otherwise maintaining them by Legislative enactments and declarations, had been such that the Colonies did not hesitate to assemble, by their deputies, in a formal Congress, authorized to oppose to the British innovations whatever measures might be found best adapted to the occasion; without however losing sight of an eventual reconciliation.

The dissuasive3 measures of that Congress, being without effect, another Congress was held4 in 1775, whose pacific efforts to bring about a change in the views of the other party, being equally unavailing, and the commencement of actual hostilities having at length put an end to all hope of reconciliation; the Congress finding moreover that the popular voice began to call for an entire & perpetual dissolution of the political ties which had connected them with G. B., proceeded on the memorable 4th of July, 1776 to declare the 13 Colonies Independent States.

[393]

During the discussions of this solemn Act, a Committee consisting of member from each colony had been appointed, to prepare & digest a form of Confederation, for the future management of the Common interests, which had hitherto been left to the discretion of Congress, guided by the exigencies of the contest, and by the known intentions or occasional instructions of the Colonial Legislatures.

It appears that as early as the 21st of July 1775, A plan entitled “Articles of Confederation & perpetual Union of the Colonies,” had been sketched by Docr. Franklin, The plan being on that day submitted by him to Congress; and tho’ not copied into their Journals remaining on their files in his handwriting. But notwithstanding the term “perpetual” observed in the title, the articles provided expressly for the event of a return of the Colonies to a connection with G. Britain.

This sketch became a basis for the plan reported by the Come on the 12th of July, now also remaining on the files of Congress, in the handwriting of Mr. Dickinson. The plan, tho’ dated after the Declaration of Independence, was probably drawn up before that event; since the name of Colonies, not States is used throughout the draught. The plan reported, was debated and amended from time to time, till the 17th. of November 1777, when it was agreed to by Congress, and proposed to the Legislatures of the States, with an explanatory and recommendatory letter. The ratifications of these by their Delegates in Congs duly authorized took place at successive dates, but were not compleated till March 1, 1781, when Maryland who had made it a prerequisite1 that the vacant lands acquired from the British Crown should be a common fund, yielded to the persuasion that a final & formal establishment of the federal Union & Govt would make a favorable impression not only on other foreign Nations, but on G. B. herself.

The great difficulty experienced in so framing the fedl. system as to obtain the unanimity required for its due sanction, may be inferred from the long interval, and recurring discussions, between the commencement and completion of the work; from the changes [394] made during its progress; from the language of Congs. when proposing it to the States, wch dwelt on the impracticability of devising a system acceptable to all of them; from the reluctant assent given by some; and the various alterations proposed by others; and by tardiness in others again which produced a special address to them from Congs, enforcing the duty of sacrificing local considerations and favorite opinions to the public safety, and the necessary harmony: Nor was the assent of some of the States finally yielded without strong protests against particular articles, and a reliance on future amendments removing their objections.

It is to be recollected, no doubt, that these delays might be occasioned in some degree, by an occupation of the Public Councils both general & local, with the deliberations and measures, essential to a Revolutionary struggle; But there must have been a balance for these causes, in the obvious motives to hasten the establishment of a regular and efficient Govt; and in the tendency of the crisis to repress opinions and pretensions,1 which might be inflexible in another state of things.

The principal difficulties which embarrassed the progress, and retarded the completion of the plan of Confederation, may be traced to 1. the natural repugnance2 of the parties to a relinquishment of Power; 2 a natural jealousy of its abuse in other hands than their own; 3 the rule of suffrage among parties unequal in size, but equal in sovereignty; 4 the ratio of Contributions in money and in troops, among parties, whose inequality in size did not correspond with that of their wealth, or of their military or free population; 5, the selection and definition of the powers, at once necessary to the federal head, and safe to the several members.

To these sources of difficulty, incident to the formation of all such Confederacies, were added two others one of a temporary, the other of a permanent nature. The first was the case of the Crown lands, so called because they had been held by the British Crown, and being ungranted to individuals when its authority ceased, were considered by the States within whose charters or [395] asserted limits they lay, as devolving on them; whilst it was contended by the others, that being wrested from the dethroned Authority, by the equal exertions of all, they resulted of right and in equity to the benefit of all. The lands being of vast extent and of growing value, were1 the occasion of much discussion & heart-burning; & proved the most obstinate of the impediments to an earlier consummation of the plan of federal Govt. The State of Maryland the last that acceded to it held out as already noticed, till the 1. March 1781 and then yielded only to the hope that by giving a stable & authoritative character to the Confederation, a successful termination of the Contest might be accelerated. The dispute was happily compromised by successive surrenders of portions of the territory by the States having exclusive claims to it, and acceptances of them by Congress.

The other source of dissatisfaction was the peculiar situation of some of the States, which having no convenient ports for foreign commerce, were subject to be taxed by their neighbors, thro’ whose ports, their commerce was carried on. New Jersey placed between Phila & N. York, was likened to a cask tapped at both ends; And N. Carolina, between Virga & S. Carolina to a patient bleeding at both Arms. The Articles of Confederation provided no remedy2 for the complaint; which produced a strong protest on the part of N. Jersey; and never ceased to be a source of dissatisfaction & discord, until the new Constitution superseded the old.

But the radical infirmity of the “Arts. of Confederation” was the dependence of Congs on the voluntary and simultaneous compliance with its Requisitions, by so many independent Communities, each consulting more or less its particular interests & convenience and distrusting the compliance of the others. Whilst the paper emissions of Congs continued to circulate they were employed as a sinew of war, like gold & silver. When that ceased to be the case, and the fatal defect of the political System was felt in its alarming force, the war was merely kept alive and brought to a successful conclusion by such foreign aids and temporary expedients as could be applied; a hope prevailing with many, and a wish with all, that a state of peace, and the sources of prosperity opened [396] by it, would give to the Confederacy in practice, the efficiency which had been inferred from its theory.

The close of the war however brought no cure for the public embarrassments. The States relieved from the pressure of foreign danger, and flushed with the enjoyment of independent and sovereign power; (instead of a diminished disposition to part with it), persevered in omissions and in measures incompatible with their relations to the Federal Govt and with those among themselves.

Having served as a member of Congs. through the period between Mar. 1780 & the arrival of peace in 1783, I had become intimately acquainted with the public distresses and the causes of them. I had observed the successful opposition to every attempt to procure a remedy by new grants of power to Congs I had found moreover that despair of success hung over the compromising provision of April 1783, for the Public necessities, which had been so elaborately planned and so impressively recommended to the States.1 Sympathizing, under this aspect of affairs, in the alarm of the friends of free Govt at the threatened danger of an abortive result to the great & perhaps last experiment in its favour, I could not be insensible to the obligation to co-operate as far as I could in averting the calamity. With this view I acceded to the desire of my fellow Citizens of the County that I should be one of its representatives in the Legislature, hoping that I might there best contribute to inculcate the critical posture to which the Revolutionary cause was reduced, and the merit of a leading agency of the State in bringing about a rescue of the Union, and the blessings2 of liberty staked on it, from an impending catastrophe.

It required but little time after taking my seat in the House of Delegates in May 1784, to discover that however favorable the general disposition of the State might be towards3 the Confederacy the Legislature retained the aversion of its predecessors to transfers of power from the State to the Govt of the Union; notwithstanding the urgent demands of the Federal Treasury; the glaring inadequacy of the authorized mode of supplying it, the rapid [397] growth of anarchy in the Fedl System, and the animosity kindled among the States1 by their conflicting regulations.

The temper of the Legislature & the wayward course of its proceedings may be gathered from the Journals of its Sessions in the years 1784 & 1785.

The failure however of the varied propositions in the Legislature, for enlarging the powers of Congress, the continued failure of the efforts of Congr to obtain from them the means of providing for the debts of the Revolution; and of countervailing the commercial laws of G. B., a source of much irritation & agst. which the separate efforts of the States were found worse than abortive; these Considerations with the lights thrown on the whole subject, by the free & full discussion it had undergone led to a general acquiescence in the Resoln. passed on the 21. of Jany 1786, which proposed & invited a meeting of Deputies from all the States to—insert the Resol. (See Journal.)2

The resolution had been brought forward some weeks before on the failure of a proposed grant of power to Congress to collect a revenue from commerce, which had been abandoned by its friends in consequence of material alterations made in the grant by a Committee of the whole. The Resolution Tho introduced by Mr. Tyler an influential member, who having never served in Congress, had more the ear of the House than those whose services there exposed them to an imputable bias, was so little acceptable that it was not then persisted in. Being now revived by him, on the last day of the Session, and being the alternative of adjourning without any effort for the crisis in the affairs of the Union, it obtained [398] a general vote; less however with some of its friends from a confidence in the success of the experiment than from a hope that it might prove a step to a more comprehensive & adequate provision for the wants of the Confederacy.

It happened also that Commissioners appointed by Virga & Maryd to settle the jurisdiction on waters dividing the two States had, apart from their official reports, recomtildeended a uniformity in the regulations of the 2 States on several subjects & particularly on those having relation to foreign trade. It appeared at the time that Maryd. had deemed a concurrence of her neighbors, Pena & Delaware, indispensable in such a case, who for like reasons would require that of their neighbors. So apt and forcible an illustration of the necessity of a uniformity throughout all the States could not but favour the passage of a Resolution which proposed a Convention having that for its object.

The comtildeissioners appointed by the Legisl: & who attended the Convention were E. Randolph the attorney of the state St. Geo: Tucker & J. M. The designation of the time & place to be proposed for its meeting, and communicated to the states having been left to the Comrs. they named for the time early September and for the place the City of Annapolis avoiding the residences of Congs and large Comtildeercial Cities as liable to suspicions of an extraneous influence.

Altho’ the invited Meeting appeared to be generally favored, five states only assembled; some failing to make appointments, and some of the individuals appointed not hastening their attendance, the result in both cases being ascribed mainly, to a belief that the time had not arrived for such a political reform, as might be expected from a further experience of its necessity.

But in the interval between the proposal of the Convention, and the time of its meeting such had been the advance of public opinion in the desired direction, stimulated as it had been by the effect of the contemplated object, of the meeting, in turning the general attention to the Critical State of things, and in calling forth the sentiments and exertions of the most enlightened & influential patriots, that the Convention thin as it was did not scruple to decline the limited task assigned to it and to recommend to the States a Convention with powers adequate to the occasion. Nor [399] was it unnoticed that the commission of the N. Jersey Deputation had extended its object to a general provision for the exigencies of the Union. A recommendation for this enlarged purpose was accordingly reported by a Come to whom the subject had been referred. It was drafted by Col: H., and finally agreed to unanimously in the following form. Insert it.1

[400]

The recommendation was well recd. by the Legislature of Virga, which happened to be the first that acted on it, the example of her compliance was made as conciliatory and impressive as possible. The Legislature were unanimous or very nearly so on the occasion, and as a proof of the magnitude & solemnity attached to it, they placed Genl. W. at the head of the Deputation from the State; and as a proof of the deep interest he felt in the case he overstepped the obstacles to his acceptance of the appointment.1

The law2 complying with the recommendation3 from Annapolis was in the terms following:4

[401]

A resort to a General Convention to remodel the Confederacy, was not a new idea. It had entered at an early date into the conversations and speculations of the most reflecting & foreseeing [402] observers of the inadequacy of the powers allowed to Congress.1 In a pamphlet published in May 81 at the seat of Congs Pelatiah Webster an able tho’ not conspicuous Citizen, after discussing the fiscal system of the U. States, and suggesting among other remedial provisions including national Bank remarks that “the Authority of Congs, at present is very inadequate to the performance of their duties; and this indicates the necessity of their calling a Continental Convention for the express purpose of ascertaining, defining, enlarging and limiting, the duties & powers of their Constitution.”

On the 1. day of Apl, 1783, Col: Hamilton, in a debate in Congs. observed that.2

He alluded probably to (see life of Schuyler in Longacre3—)

It does not appear however that his expectation had been fulfilled.

In a letter to J. M. from R. H. Lee then President of Congs. dated Novr 26, 1784 He says:4

The answer of J. M. remarks.5

[403]

In 1785, Noah Webster whose pol & other valuable writings had made him known to the Public, in one of his publications, of American policy brought into view the same resort for supplying the defects Fedl System (see his life in Longacre).1

The proposed & expected Convention at Annapolis the first of a general character that appears to have been realized, & the state of the public mind awakened by it, had attracted the particular attention of Congs and favored the idea there of a Convention with fuller powers for amending the Confederacy. to J. M. letters of Monroe of Grayson.2

[404]

It does not appear that in any of these cases, the reform system was to be otherwise sanctioned than by the Legislative authy of the States; nor whether nor how far a change was to be made in the structure of the Depository of the Federal powers.

The act of Virga providing for the Convention at Philada, was succeeded by appointments from the other states as their Legislatures were assembled, the appointments being selections from the most experienced & highest1 standing Citizens. Rh. Is. was the only exception to a compliance with the recommendation from Annapolis, well known to have been swayed by an obdurate adherence to an advantage which her position gave her of taxing her neighbors thro’ their consumption of imported supplies, an advantage which it was forseen would be taken from her by a revisal of the “articles of Confederation.”

As the pub. mind had been ripened for a salutary Reform of the pol. System, in the interval between the proposal & the meeting of the Comrs. at Annapolis, the interval between the last event, and the meeting of Deps at Phila had continued to develope more & more the necessity & the extent of a systematic provision for the preservation and Govt of the Union. Among the ripening incidents was the Insurrection of Shays, in Massts., against her Govt; which was with difficulty suppressed, notwithstanding the influence on the insurgents of an apprehended interposition of the Fedl troops.

At the date of the Convention, the aspect & retrospect of the pol. condition of the U. S. could not but fill the pub. mind with a gloom which was relieved only by a hope that so select a Body would devise an adequate remedy for the existing and prospective evils so impressively demanding it.

It was seen that the public debt rendered so sacred by the [405] cause in which it had been incurred remained without any provision for its payment. The reiterated and elaborate efforts of Cong. to procure from the States a more adequate power to raise the means of payment had failed. The effect of the ordinary requisitions of Congress had only displayed the inefficiency of the authy making them; none of the States having duly complied with them, some having failed altogether or nearly so; and in one instance, that of N. Jersey, a compliance was expressly refused; nor was more yielded to the expostulations of members of Congs deputed to her Legislature, than a mere repeal of the law, without a compliance (see letter of Grayson to J. M.).

The want of Authy in Congs. to regulate Commerce had produced in Foreign nations particularly G. B., a monopolizing policy injurious to the trade of the U. S., and destructive to their navigation; the imbecility and anticipated dissolution of the Confederacy extinguishg all apprehensions of a Countervailing policy on the part of the U. States.

The same want of a general power over Commerce led to an exercise of the power separately, by the States, wch not only proved abortive, but engendered rival, conflicting and angry regulations. Besides the vain attempts to supply their respective treasuries by imposts, which turned their commerce into the neighbouring ports, and to coerce a relaxation of the British monopoly of the W. Inda. navigation, which was attempted by Virginia,1 (see Journal of ) the States having ports for foreign commerce, taxed & irritated the adjoining States, trading thro’ them, as N. Y., Pena., Virga & S. Carolina. Some of the States, as Connecticut, taxed imports as from Massts, higher than imports even from G. B. of wch Massts. complained to Virga. and doubtless to other States (see letter of J. M.). In sundry instances as of N. Y., N. J., Pa & Maryld, (see ). The navigation laws treated the Citizens of other States as aliens.

In certain cases the Authy of the Confederacy was disregarded, as in violation not only of the Treaty of peace; but of Treaties with France & Holland, which were complained of to Congs.

[406]

In other cases the Fedl Authy was violated by Treaties & wars with Indians, as by Geo.; by troops raised & kept up witht the consent of Congs, as by Massts.; by compacts witht the consent of Congs, as between Pena and N. Jersey, and between Virga & Maryld. From the Legisl: Journals of Virga it appears, that a vote refusing to apply for a sanction of Congs was followed by a vote agst the communication of the Compact to Congs.

In the internal administration of the States a violation of Contracts had become familiar in the form of depreciated paper made a legal tender, of property substituted for money, of Instalment laws, and of the occlusions of the Courts of Justice; although evident that all such interferences affected the rights of other States, Relatively creditor, as well as Citizens Creditors within the State.

Among the defects which had been severely felt was that of a uniformity in cases requiring it, as laws of naturalization and bankruptcy, a Coercive authority operating on individuals and a guaranty of the internal tranquillity of the States.

As a natural consequence of this distracted and disheartening condition1 of the union, the Fedl Authy had ceased to be respected abroad, and dispositions were shewn there, particularly in G. B., to take advantage of its imbecility, and to speculate on its approaching downfall: At home it had lost all confidence & credit; the unstable and unjust career of the States had also forfeited the respect & confidence essential to order and good Govtt involving a general decay of confidence between Man & man. It was found moreover that those least partial to popular Govt, or most distrustful of its efficacy were yielding to anticipations, that from an increase of the confusion a Govt might result more congenial with their taste or their opinions. Whilst those most devoted to the principles and forms of Republics, were alarmed for the cause of liberty itself, at stake in the American Experiment, and anxious for a system that wd avoid the inefficacy of a mere confederacy without passing into the opposite extreme of a consolidated govt. It was known that there were individuals who had betrayed a bias towards Monarchy (see Knox to G. W. and him [407] to Jay,) (Marshall’s life1) and there had always been some not unfavorable to a partition of the Union into several Confederacies; either from a better chance of figuring on a Sectional Theatre, or that the Sections would require stronger Govts, or by their hostile conflicts lead to a monarchical consolidation. The idea of a dismemberment had recently made its appearance in the Newspapers.

Such were the defects, the deformities, the diseases and the [408] ominous prospects, for which the Convention were to provide a remedy, and which ought never to be overlooked in expounding & appreciating the Constitutional Charter, the remedy that was provided.

As a sketch on paper, the earliest perhaps wch of a Constitutional Govt for the Union (organized into the regular Departments with physical means operating on individuals) to be sanctioned [409] by the people of the States, acting in their original & sovereign character, was contained in a letter from J. M. of Apl 8 1787 to Govr. Randolph, a copy of the latter is here inserted.

The feature in the letter which vested in the general Authy a negative on the laws of the States, was suggested by the negative in the head of the British Empire, which prevented collisions between the parts & the whole, and between the parts themselves. It was supposed that the substitution, of an elective and responsible authority for an hereditary and irresponsible one, would avoid the appearance even of a departure from the principle of Republicanism. But altho’ the subject was so viewed in the Convention, and the votes on it were more than once equally divided, it was finally & justly abandoned, as apart from other objections it was not practicable among so many states increasing in number and enacting each of them so many laws. Instead of the proposed negative, the objects of it were left as finally provided for in the Constitution.

On the arrival of the Virginia Deputies at Philada, it occurred to them that from the early and prominent part taken by that State in bringing about the Convention some initiative step might be expected from them. The Resolutions introduced by Governor Randolph were the result of a Consultation on the subject; with an understanding that they left all the Deputies entirely open [410] to the lights of discussion, and free to concur in any alterations or modifications which their reflections and judgments might approve. The Resolutions as the Journals shew became the basis on which the proceedings of the Convention commenced, and to the developments, variations and modifications of which the plan of Govt. proposed by the Convention may be traced.

The curiosity I had felt during my researches into the History of the most distinguished Confederacies, particularly those of antiquity, and the deficiency I found in the means of satisfying it more especially in what related to the process, the principles, the reasons, & the anticipations, which prevailed in the formation of them, determined me to preserve as far as I could an exact account of what might pass in the Convention whilst executing its trust, with the magnitude of which I was duly impressed, as I was with the gratification promised to future curiosity by an authentic exhibition of the objects, the opinions, & the reasonings from which the new System of Govt. was to receive its peculiar structure & organization. Nor was I unaware of the value of such a contribution to the fund of materials for the History of a Constitution on which would be Staked the happiness of a people great even in its infancy, and possibly1 the cause of liberty throughout the world.

In pursuance of the task I had assumed I chose a seat in front of the presiding member, with the other members on my right & left hands. In this favorable position for hearing all that passed, I noted in terms legible & in abbreviations & marks intelligible to myself what was read from the Chair or spoken by the members; and losing not a moment unnecessarily between the adjournment & reassembling of the Convention I was enabled to write out my daily notes during the session or within a few finishing days after its close, in the extent and form preserved in my own hand on my files.

In the labor and correctness of this I was not a little aided by practice, and by a familiarity with the style and the train of observation and reasoning which characterized the principal speakers. It happened, also, that I was not absent a single day, nor [411] more than a casual fraction of an hour in any day, so that I could not have lost a single speech unless a very short one.

It may be proper to remark, that, with a very few exceptions, the speeches were neither furnished, nor revised, nor sanctioned, by the speakers, but written out from my notes, aided by the freshness of my recollections. A further remark may be proper, that views of the subject might occasionally be presented, in the speeches and proceedings, with a latent reference to a compromise on some middle ground, by mutual concessions. The exceptions alluded to were,—first, the sketch furnished by Mr. Randolph of his speech on the introduction of his propositions, on the twenty-ninth day of May; secondly, the speech of Mr. Hamilton, who happened to call on me when putting the last hand to it, and who acknowledged its fidelity, without suggesting more than a very few verbal alterations which were made; thirdly, the speech of Gouverneur Morris on the second day of May, which was communicated to him on a like occasion, and who acquiesced in it without even a verbal change. The correctness of his language and the distinctness of his enunciation were particularly favorable to a reporter. The speeches of Doctor Franklin, excepting a few brief ones, were copied from the written ones read to the Convention by his colleague, Mr. Wilson, it being inconvenient to the Doctor to remain long on his feet.

Of the ability and intelligence of those who composed the Convention the debates and proceedings may be a test; as the character of the work which was the offspring of their deliberations must be tested by the experience of the future, added to that of nearly half a century which has passed.

But whatever may be the judgment pronounced on the competency of the architects of the Constitution, or whatever may be the destiny of the edifice prepared by them, I feel it a duty to express my profound and solemn conviction, derived from my intimate opportunity of observing and appreciating the views of the Convention, collectively and individually, that there never was an assembly of men, charged with a great and arduous trust, who were more pure in their motives, or more exclusively or anxiously devoted to the object committed to them, than were the members of the Federal Convention of 1787, to the [412] object of devising and proposing a constitutional system which should best supply the defects of that which it was to replace, and best secure the permanent liberty and happiness of their country.




----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
end of volume ii.



[413]



1

The allusion is to his rejection the month before by Miss Floyd, a daughter of William Floyd, of New York.



1

Cypher represented by italics.



1

See letter of Feby. 17, [1784], shewing Buffon who had been read to have been misconceived. Note in MSS.



1

George Hancock, a citizen of Virginia, assaulted Jonas Beard, a justice of the peace and member of the legislature of South Carolina. The Governor of South Carolina demanded Hancock’s surrender from the Governor of Virginia, under the fourth article of the confederation, charging the assault as a high misdemeanor. Randolph, as Attorney General of Virginia, thought that Virginia had a right to insist upon proof of Hancock’s guilt before taking action, but that South Carolina’s definition of a misdemeanor must be admitted by Virginia, and that flight ought not to secure one from punishment. Randolph to Jefferson, January 30, 1784, Conway’s Randolph, 51.



1

Italics for cypher.



1

Cypher.



1

See the letter of July 3d to Jefferson.



1

“Monroe is buying land almost adjoining me. Short will do the same. What would I not give [if] you could fall into the circle. . . . There is a little farm of 140 as adjoining me, & within two miles, all of good land, tho’ old, with a small indifferent house on it, the whole not worth more than £250. Such a one might be a farm of experiment & support a little table and household. It is on the road to Orange & so much nearer than I am. It is convenient enough for supplementary supplies from thence. Once more think of it, and adieu.”—Jefferson to Madison, Feb. 20, 1784. Writings of Jefferson, iii., 406. Madison’s personal plans were given a definite shape the following summer, Aug. 19, 1784, when his father presented him with a farm of 560 acres, a part of the Montpelier tract.—Orange County MSS. Records.



2

Italics for cypher.



1

Notes of Speech on Proposed Amendment to the Constitution of Virginia. June, 1784:

“Virga Legislature.

“For Amending Constitution of Va. in 1784.

“Nature of a Constitution examd. see Massts. p. 7. 8. 15. 16. N. Y. p. 63.—Pena p. 85. 86. Del. p. 106 N. C. p. 146-150. S. C. p. 188. Geo p. 175. 186.

“Convention of 1776. without due power from people.

“1. passed the ordinance for Constn. on recommendation of Congs of May 15. 1776. prior to declntilde of independence: as was done in N. H. p. 1 & N. J. p. 78-84.

“2. Passed it from impulse of necessity.—See last clause of the preamble.

3. before independence declared by Congs.

“4. power from people no where pretended.

“5. other ordinances of same Session deemed alterable as relative to Senators—oaths—Salt.

“6. provisions for care of West Augusta in its nature temporary.

“7. Convention make themselves branch of the Legislature.

“Constitution, if so to be called defective.

“1. in a Union of powers which is tyranny Montesq.

“2. Executive dependent on Legislature. 1. for salary. 2. for character in the treñial expulsion.—3. expensive—4. may be for life contrary to Art: 5 of Declaration of Rights.—

“3. Judiciary dependent for amt. of salary.

“4. Privileges & wages of members of Legislature unlimited & undefined.

“5. Senate badly constituted & improperly barred of the originating of laws.

“6. equality of representation not provided for see N. Y. p. 65. S. C. p. 165.

“7. Impeachmts. of great moment & on bad footing.

“8. County Courts seem to be fixed p. 143. 144. also General Court.

“9. Habeas Corpus omitted.

“10. no mode of expounding constitution & and of course no check to Genl. Assembly.

“11. Right of suffrage not well fixed—quere if popish recusants &c. are not disfranchised? Constn. rests on acquiescence, a bad basis.

“Revision during war improper—on peace decency requires surrender of power to people.

“No danger in referring to the people who already exercise an equivalent power.

“If no change be made in the Constitution, it is advisable to have it ratified and secured agst. the doubts and imputations under which it now labours.”—Mad. MSS.



2

“J. M.’s proposition to the Gen. Assembly [June—1784]. See Journal Whereas by the 4th. article of the Definitive Treaty of Peace ratified and proclaimed by the United States in Congress assembled on the 14th. day of Jany last ‘it is agreed that Creditors on either side shall meet with no lawful impediment to the recovery of the full value in sterling money, of all bona fide debts heretofore contracted’: and whereas it is the duty and determination of this Commonwealth, with a becoming reverence for the faith of Treaties, truly and honestly, to give to the said article, all the effect, inasmuch as the debts due from the good people of this commonwealth to the subjects of G. Britain were contracted under the prospect of gradual payments, and are justly computed to exceed the possibility of full payment at once, more especially, under the diminution of their property resulting from the devastations of the late war: and it is therefore conceived that the interest of the British creditors themselves will be favored by fixing certain reasonable periods, at which divided payments shall be made.

“Resolved, that it is the opinion of this Committee, that the laws now in force relative to British debts, ought to be so varied & amended as to make the same recoverable in the proportions & at the periods following: that is to say, part thereof with interest of 5 per Ct from the date of the definitive Treaty of peace, on the day of and the remaining on the day of And whereas it is further stipulated by art: 7th. of the said Treaty, among other things, that ‘his Britannic Majesty shall with all convenient speed, and without causing any destruction, or carrying away any negroes or other property of the American inhabitants, withdraw all his armies, garrisons and fleets from the said United States; and from every post place and harbour within the same, leaving in all fortifications the American artillery that may be therein, and shall also order and cause all archives, records, deeds & papers, belonging to any of the said States, or their citizens, which in the course of the war, may have fallen into the hands of his officers, to be forthwith restored and delivered to the proper States and persons to whom they belong,’ which stipulation was in the same words contained in the Provisional articles signed at Paris on the 30th day of November 1782 by the commissioners empowered on each part: and whereas posterior to the date of the said provisional articles, Sundry negroes the property of citizens of this commonwealth were carried away from the city of New York whilst in possession of the British forces, and no restitution or satisfaction on that head, has been made, either before or since the Definitive Treaty of peace; And whereas the good people of this commonwealth have a clear right to expect that whilst, on one side, they are called upon by the U. S. in Congress assembled to them by fœderal Constitution the powers of war & peace are exclusively delegated, to carry into effect the stipulations in favour of British subjects, an equal observance of the stipulations in their own favor, should, on the other side, be duly secured to them under the authority of the Confederacy.

“Resolved, that it is the opinion of this Committee; that the Delegates representing this State in Congress ought to be instructed to urge in Congress peremptory measures for obtaining from G. Britain satisfaction for the infringement of the article aforesaid; and in case of refusal or unreasonable delay of such satisfaction, to urge that the sanction of Congress be given to the just policy of retaining so much of the debts due from citizens of this commonwealth, to British subjects, as will fully repair the losses sustained from such infringement: and that to enable the said Delegates, to proceed herein with the greater precision & effect, the Executive ought to be requested to take immediate measures for obtaining & transmitting to them, all just claims of the citizens of this Commonwealth under the 7th art: as aforesaid.”—Mad. MSS.



1

At this session a concerted effort was made by the various churches for State recognition. There was a committee of the legislature charged “with all matters relating to religion and morality.” Petitions were presented from the Baptists and Presbyterians asking for a removal of all remaining distinctions in favor of the Episcopal Church, in order that “religious freedom be established upon the broad basis of perfect political equality.” The bill for the Episcopal Church was debated two days.—Rives, i., 560, et seq. John B. Smith, president of Hampden-Sydney College, wrote to Madison, June 21, 1784, that the bill was insulting to non-Episcopalians, and any measure to enable the Episcopal clergy to regulate all spiritual concerns of that church was an express attempt “to draw the State into an elicit connection and commerce with them,” and to put the legislature in the position of being at the head of the church. He was sorry that Christian ministers should virtually declare their church to be a mere political machine.—Smith to Madison, Mad. MSS.



1

The boundary between Virginia and Maryland was the Potomac, and the charter of Lord Baltimore had defined the Southern shore as the line. This Virginia confirmed in the Constitution of 1776, reserving, however, the free naviigation and use of the river. Madison feared that this general confirmation would be construed by Maryland into a total surrender of all jurisdiction over the river. Having accertained through Jefferson that Maryland would appoint commissioners to form regulations if Virginia did so, Madison introduced a bill to that effect, which was passed June 30th. See Rives, i., 535, et seq. Through a blunder in the notifications Madison and Randolph did not attend the meeting with the Maryland Commissioners, which took place at Mount Vernon, but the Maryland Commissioners having journeyed some distance, Mason and Henderson decided to proceed with the conference.—Mason to Madison, August 9, 1785.—Mad. MSS. The Maryland members were T. Stone, Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer and Samuel Chase. Together with Mason and Henderson they signed the report which was dated Mount Vernon, March 28, 1785, and transmitted to the General Assembly as “Result of the Deliberations of the Commissioners of Virginia & Maryland, appointed to settle the navigation & Jurisdiction of that Part of the Chesapeake Bay within the Limits of Virginia, & of the Rivers Potomack and Pokomoke.” The Commissioners also united in a joint letter to the President of the Executive Council of Pennsylvania, recommending the cooperation of that State.—Mad. MSS. There is no reason for supposing that Madison’s bill had any deeper purpose than the simple one that appeared on the surface, but when it appeared that regulations between Virginia and Maryland would be useless unless Pennsylvania were included, it became equally evident that New York, New Jersey, and Delaware could render ineffective any agreement Pennsylvania might make. A general convention of all the States to bring about what was at first projected for two States only was the logical suggestion. It resulted in the call for the Annapolis meeting, which in turn led to the Philadelphia convention. The proceedings of the Virginia and Maryland Commissioners are traced in Kate Mason Rowland’s George Mason, ii., 12, et seq. For Madison’s resolutions extending the Commissioners’ powers, see post.



1

“Mrs. Carr was informed by Mr. Jefferson, previous to his departure to Europe, that he had requested the favor of you, to direct the Studies of her two Sons Peter & Dabney in his absence. Should it be convenient for you to comply with Mr. Jeffersons request, Mrs. Carr will be much obliged to you to inform her, when, and in what manner you would wish them disposed of.”—W. O. Collis to Madison, August 9, 1784.—Mad. MSS.



1

Madison wrote to Washington on this subject July 2d less fully than in this letter. For Washington’s suggestion that something should be done for “poor Paine,” see his letter of June 12, 1784, to Madison, Writings of Washington, x., 393, and for Jefferson’s opinion of the action of the Assembly, Jefferson to Madison, December 8, 1784, Writings of Jefferson, iv., 17.



1

Chinch-bug. Note in MS.



1

Italics for cyphers.



1

“I can with truth therefore declare to you, and wish you to repeat it on every proper occasion, that no person on earth is authorized to place my name in any adventure for lands on the western waters.” Jefferson to Madison, November 11, 1784.—Writings of Jefferson, iv., 3.



1

Italics for cypher.



1

. . . “That one reason assign’d for detaining the Western posts from the United States was, because Virginia had not repealed her laws that impede the recovery of British debts. It is sincerely to be lamented that our State should be so charged, and it is much to be wished that the Advocates for retaining those laws wd no longer insist upon furnishing pretext for detaining from the U. S. possessions of such capital importance to the Union as these posts are.”—Richard Henry Lee to Madison, November 20, 1784. Mad. MSS.



1

Italics for cypher.



1

Oliver Wolcott, Richard Butler, and Arthur Lee.



1

A paraphrase of this speech may be found in Rives i., 604. The speech is written in a microscopic hand on the back of a letter.



1

The opening of the letter relates to Monroe’s journey over the same ground substantially that Madison had just travelled.



1

The resolution was brought in by Henry. It declared that “the people of the commonwealth, according to their respective abilities, ought to pay a moderate tax or contribution for the support of the Christian religion, or of some Christian church, denomination, or communion of Christians, or of some form of Christian worship.” Only one petition appeared against the measure. A special committee with Henry at the head was appointed to prepare the bill. See Rives i., 599, et seq.



1

Madison also had a scheme for improving the roads of the State, and prepared resolutions in the winter of 1784-85 to be introduced at this session of the Legislature, but the time being inopportune he allowed the matter to drop.

“Whereas the opening & keeping in repair of direct roads from the different parts of this Common’th to the several market Towns, and from one market Town to another would greatly encourage agriculture by cheapening the transportation of its productions to the places of consumption & exportation, and would in other respects contribute to the improvement of the Country by facilitating intercourse between the different parts thereof, and it is considered by the present general assembly, that altho’ the various necessary burdens which now press on the people render a general plan for the aforesaid purpose unadvisable at this moment, yet that such a beginning ought to be made in the work as will not only produce immediate advantage to the community; but will lead to a more diffusive & complete execution thereof: and it is the more necessary that the principal roads should be so straightened before the value of the ground to be obtained from individuals increases. Be it therefore enacted that the governour with the advice of the Council of State shall be & he hereby is authorized to cause surveys to be made in order to determine the best courses for roads, (having regard to the nature of the ground as well as to distance) from & to the following places to wit; from and for executing such surveys the Governor with the advice aforesaid is further authorized to appoint a proper person for each of such surveys who shall be allowed a sum not exceeding per day during his actual employment in the service, and who may take with him so many assistants & such daily wages as the Executive shall approve, the said Surveyors shall make to the Governour the ”—Mad. MSS.



1

Cypher represented by italics.



1

Cypher represented by italics.



1

Italics for cypher.



1

This passage briefly recounts the acts passed by the Legislature.



1

James Maury. He was appointed Consul at Liverpool, where he acted as Madison’s agent in selling his tobacco for many years.



1

Italics for cypher.



1

By concentrating our Commerce at Alexandria and Norfolk the object of the Port-Bill. [Note in MS.]



2

Italics for cypher.



1

“You may be surprised to hear that a late Convention have unanimously agreed to petition the assembly to have this District established into a State. I cannot explain the prevailing Sentiments better, than by telling you We conceive the people of this District do not at present enjoy a greater portion of Liberty than an American Colony might have done a few years ago had she been allowed a Representation in the British Parliament. . . . Until lately I have myself thought it would be more eligible to continue as we are a while longer; but finding that our Situation is too remote to enjoy the advantages of Government with Virginia in any tolerable degree, I have fallen in with the opinion that it is better to part in peace than to remain together in a state of Jealousy and Discontent.” Caleb Wallace to Madison, Lincoln Co., July 12, 1785. Mad. MSS.



1

Nicholas, of Albemarle.



1

Italics for cypher.



1

Italics for cypher.



1

Several of Madison’s friends in Kentucky wrote to him asking his assistance in the framing of a new government. January 6, 1785, George Muter transmitted questions which Caleb Wallace wished answered, which were the same as those answered above. In the MSS. this letter is not addressed, and is marked as having been sent to “John Brown, Kentucky,” but Sept. 24, 1785, Caleb Wallace replied to it as a letter to him, which doubtless it was.—Mad. MSS.



1

The Constitution of N. York directs an experiment on this Subject. [Note in MS.]



1

Italics for cypher.



2

R. H. Lee.



1

By a vote of ayes 48, noes 38, the third reading of the engrossed bill to establish a provision for the teachers of the Christian religion was postponed December 24, 1784, to the fourth Thursday in the next November. Among those voting against the postponement were Benjamin Harrison, Joseph Jones, John Marshall, Philip Barbour, Richard Bland Lee, Richard Henry Lee, and Henry Tazewell. Washington also favored the bill. It was printed for distribution among the voters in order that their sentiments towards it might be ascertained. Among its opponents were Wilson Cary Nicholas and George Nicholas. A copy of the bill is found among the Washington MSS. The copy of the Remonstrance used here is one of the broadsides printed by the Phenix Press of Alexandria, now in the Virginia Historical Society, with a number of signatures appended to it. It has been collated with the notes in Madison’s hand found among the Madison MSS.

“My brother informs me that he conversed with you on the propriety of remonstrating against certain measures of the last session of Assembly and that you seemed to think it would be best that the counties opposed to the measure should be silent. I fear this would be construed into an assent especially to the law for establishing a certain provision for the clergy: for as the Assembly only postponed the passing of it that they might know whether it was disagreeable to the people I think they may justly conclude that all are for it who do not say to the contrary. A majority of the counties are in favor of the measure but undecipherable] a great majority of the people against it, but if this majority should not appear by petition the fact will be denied. Another reason why all should petition is that some will certainly do it and those who support the bills will insist that those who petition are all the opposition. Would it not add greatly to the weight of the petition if they all hold the same language? by discovering an exact uniformity of sentiment in a majority of the country it would certainly deter the majority of the assembly from proceeding. All my expectations are from their fears, and not their justice. . . . If you think with me that it will be proper to say something to the Assembly, will you commit it to paper. I risk this because I know you are most capable of doing it properly and because it will be most likely to be generally adopted. I can get it sent to Amherst Buckingham Albemarle, Fluvanna, Augusta, Botetourt, Rock Bridge and Rockingham and have no doubt that Bedford and the counties Southward of it will readily join in the measure. I will also send it to Frederick and Berkeley and if it goes from your county to Farquieur Culpeper and Loudoun it will be adopted by the most populous part of the country.”—George Nicholas to Madison, Charlottesville, April 22nd 1785, Mad. MSS.

“I found that no alteration could be made to the remonstrance without injury and immediately had it copied and sent to the counties I mentioned in a former letter.”—Nicholas to Madison, Sweet Springs, July 24, 1785, Mad. MSS.



1

Decl. Rights, Art: 16. [Note in the original.]



1

Decl. Rights, Art. 1. [Note in the original.]



2

Art: 16. [Note in the original.]



1

Art. 16. [Note in the original.]



1

Decl. Rights-title. [Note in the original.]



1

This skeleton of a speech is written, as other speeches are, upon a slip of paper in a hand so small that parts of it can hardly be deciphered with the naked eye. An effect of the speech was the adoption by the House of a resolution, that “an act ought to pass to authorize the delegates of this State in Congress to give the assent of the State to a general regulation of the Commerce of the United States, under certain qualifications.”



1

The non-importation agreements of the colonies before the Revolution were not entered into by Delaware until some time after the other colonies. See Life of George Read, 81.



2

“De l’Administration des Finances de la France” had made its appearance the year before this speech was delivered.



1

From the New York Public Library (Lenox) MSS. A copy of the letter was printed in the Nation July 19, 1894.



2

The act was passed at the May session, 1782, of the General Assembly: “Whereas application hath been made to this present general assembly, that those persons who are disposed to emancipate their slaves may be empowered so to do, and the same hath been judged expedient under certain restrictions: Be it therefore enacted, That it shall hereafter be lawful for any person, by his or her last will and testament, or by any other instrument in writing, under his or her hand and seal, attested and proved in the county court by two witnesses, . . . to emancipate and set free, his or her slaves, or any of them, who shall thereupon be entirely and freely discharged from the performance of any contract entered into during servitude, and enjoy as full freedom as if they had been particularly named and freed by this act.”—Hening’s Statutes at Large, xi, 39.

Jacob Read, of South Carolina, wrote to Madison from Congress August 29, 1785: “An opinion prevails in South Carolina that the principal holders of Slaves in your State wish to divest themselves of that kind of property and that tolerable good purchases might be made on good Security being given for payments by installments with a regular discharge of the Interest.

“Under the Impression of this opinion the Honle. Mr. J. Rutledge of So. Carolina has addressed a Letter to me wishing to become engaged in any purchase I may be able to make, & to make a joint concern. . . . My present application to you is to request you to inform me if you know of any such persons as may wish to sell a gang of Hands & the Terms on which they might be had. . . . We want! Greatly want!! the assistance of your abilities & Experience in Congress.”—Mad. MSS.



1

Aug. 9, 1785, George Mason wrote from Gunston Hall to Madison, enclosing for his inspection a copy of his and Henderson’s report to the Legislature and of the joint letter to the government of Pennsylvania of the Virginia and Maryland commissioners.

January 13, 1786, the Virginia General Assembly agreed that duties on exports and imports should be the same in Virginia and Maryland, and that commissioners from the two States should meet annually to arrange the schedules—Journal of the House of Delegates.



1

The petition is in Madison’s handwriting.

June 3, 1784, a memorial from the Protestant Episcopal Church in Virginia was presented in the House of Delegates stating that the church labored under disadvantages because of several laws directing the modes of worship, and requesting the repeal of such acts; “that an act may pass, to incorporate the Protestant Episcopal Church in Virginia, to enable them to regulate all the spiritual concerns of that Church, alter its form of worship, and constitute such canons, by-laws and rules for the government and good order thereof, as are suited to their religious principles; and in general that the Legislature will aid and patronize the Christian religion.” This was referred to the Committee on Religion, of which Madison was himself a member; but he was opposed to the views of the majority of his colleagues. On June 8 Carey reported that the memorial seemed to the committee to be reasonable. The bill for the incorporation of the Protestant Episcopal Church was read the second time June 16, and after modification to a less objectionable form passed at the next session of the Assembly. (See Journal of the House of Delegates.) Madison himself voted for it, as a strategic movement, to ward off action on the more important bill for religious assessments. The act contained twelve sections, providing that the “Minister and vestry of the Protestant Episcopal Church” should, under that name, constitute a body politic and corporate in the respective parishes, and should forever enjoy all glebe lands already purchased, churches, burying-grounds, etc., belonging to them, “and every other thing the property of the late established church.” In the proceedings of the ministers and vestries all matters were to be decided by a majority vote. They had full power and authority to purchase and enjoy lands, etc. In whatever parishes ministers and vestrymen wished to form a body corporate under the act, it was lawful for any two members of the church to call together the other members in the parish and elect twelve church members, to form a vestry and with the minister of the church were authorized to regulate all its religious concerns, doctrine, discipline and worship. (Hening’s Statutes at Large, 11, 532).

Beginning with the session of the Assembly in the Autumn of 1786 petitions to repeal the act began to pour in, and also a smaller number against the repeal (Journal of the House of Delegates, Oct. 31, Nov. 1, Nov. 6, Nov. 9, Nov. 10, Nov. 17, Nov. 24, Dec. 4, Dec. 5, Dec. 7.) The act of repeal was finally passed Jan. 10, 1787. (Hening’s Stats. at Large, 12, 266.)

Rev Dr John B. Smith, of Hampden-Sidney College, a Presbyterian, wrote to Madison under date June 21, 1784:

“Since my arrival at home, I have seen a part of your Journals, & by them have learned the objects of the Petition from the Episcopal Clergy, which in one or two instances, appear to me very exceptionable. The first part of their prayer is necessary & proper; & the whole of it might pass without much animadversion to its disadvantage, ’till you hear them requesting that ‘they, the Clergy, may be incorporated by law’; & then an attentive mind must revolt against it as very unjustifiable, & very insulting to the members of their communion in general. Had they requested that an incorporating act should pass, in favour of that Church as a party of Christians, whereby the people might have had a share in the direction of ecclesiastical regulations, & the appointment of Church officers for that purpose, it would have been extremely proper. But as the matter now stands, the clergy seem desirous to exclude them from any share in such a privilege & willing to oblige the members of their Churches to sit down patiently, under such regulations as an incorporated body of Clergymen, who wish to be peculiarly considered as ministers in the view of the law, shall chuse to make, without a legal right to interpose in any manner, but such as these spiritual leaders may think fit to allow. * * * * * *

“But that part of the petition, which concerns me most as well as every non-Episcopalian in the state, is, where these Clergymen pray for an act of the Assembly to enable, them to regulate all the spiritual concerns of that Church &c. This is an express attempt to draw the State into an illicit connexion & commerce with them, which is already the ground of that uneasiness which at present prevails thro’ a great part of the State. According to the spirit of that prayer, the Legislature is to consider itself as the head of that Party, & consequently they as members are to be fostered with particular care.”

Mad. MSS.





1

“On my return to Orange I found the copy of your Notes brought along with it by Mr. Doradour. I have looked them over carefully myself & consulted several judicious friends in confidence. We are all sensible that the freedom of your strictures on some particular measures and opinions will displease their respective abettors. But we equally concur in thinking that this consideration ought not to be weighed against the utility of your plan. We think both the facts and remarks which you have assembled too valuable not to be made known, at least to those for whom you destine them, and speak of them to one another in terms which I must not repeat to you.”—Madison to Jefferson, November 15, 1785. Mad. MSS.



1

The portions of the letter printed in italics are in cypher in the original.



1

Meriwether Smith.



1

Cypher for italics.



1

“If you visit this place shortly I will present you to a young lady who will be adopted a citizen of Virga. in the course of this week.” Monroe to Madison, February 11, 1786.—Writings of Monroe, i., 123.



2

Madison and Monroe bought lands in the Mohawk Valley on a speculation. They desired Jefferson to join in the enterprise but he did not accept. Apparently no money was made in the transaction.



1

“Jersey having taken into consideration the late requisition, the house of delegates resolv’d that having enter’d into the confederation upon terms highly disadvantagous to that state, from the necessity of public Affrs at the time, and a confidence that those points in which they were aggriev’d wod. be remedied and finding this was not the case and a compact founded in such unequal principles likely, by their acquiescence to be fetter’d on them, they wod. not therefore comply with the same until their grievances were redress’d.”—Monroe to Madison, March 19, 1786.—Writings of Monroe, i., 124.



1

On Virginia.



1

“ ‘Behold, Reader, the form of George Washington. For his worth, ask History; that will tell it, when this stone shall have yielded to the decays of time. His cuntry erects this monument. Houdon makes it.’ This for one side. On the 2d represent the evacuation of Boston with the motto ‘Hostibus primum fugatis.’ On the 3d the capture of the Hessians with ‘Hostibus iterum devictis.’ On the 4th the surrender of York, with ‘Hostibus ultimum deballatis.”’—Jefferson to Madison, February 8, 1786.—Writings of Jefferson, iv., 195. Fortunately the unpretentious inscription required by Virginia was adhered to.



2

Italics for cypher.



1

	James Madison





Oct. 28. 1785

Fontainebleau



“Fontainebleau

Oct. 28. 1785

.



* * * * * * * * *

“as soon as I had got clear of the town I fell in with a poor woman walking at same rate with myself & going the same course. wishing to know the condition of the labouring poor I entered into conversation with her, which I began by enquiries for the path which would lead me into the mountain: & thence proceeded to enquiries into her vocation, condition & circumstance. she told me she was a daylabourer, at 8 sous or 4d. sterling the day: that she had two children to maintain, & to pay a rent of 30 livres for her home, (which would consume the hire of 75 days) that often she could get no emploiment, and of course was without bread. as we had walked together near a mile & she had so far served me as a guide, I gave her, on parting, 24 sous. she burst into tears of a gratitude which I could perceive was unfeigned, because she was unable to utter a word. she had probably never before received so great an aid. this little attendrissement, with the solitude of my walk led me into a train of reflections on that unequal division of property which occasions the numberless instances of wretchedness which I had observed in this country & is to be observed all over Europe. the property of this country is absolutely concentered in a very few hands, having revenues of from half a million of guineas a year downwards. these employ the flower of the country as servants, some of them having as many as 200 domestics. not labouring. they employ also a great number of manufacturers, & tradesmen, & lastly the class of labouring husbandmen. but after all these comes the most numerous of all the classes, that is, the poor who cannot find work. I asked myself what could be the reason that so many should be permitted to beg who are willing to work, in a country where there is a very considerable proportion of uncultivated lands? these lands are kept idle mostly for the sake of game. it should seem then that it must be because of the enormous wealth of the proprietors which places them above attention to the increase of their revenues by permitting these lands to be laboured. I am conscious that an equal division of property is impracticable. but the consequences of this enormous inequality producing so much misery to the bulk of mankind, legislators cannot invent too many devices for sub-dividing property, only taking care to let their sub divisions go hand in hand with the natural affections of the human mind. the descent of property of every kind therefore to all the children, or to all the brothers & sisters, or other relations in equal degree is a politic measure, and a practicable one. another means of silently lessening the unequality of property is to exempt all from taxation below a certain point, & to tax the higher portions of property in geometrical progression as they rise. Whenever there is in any country, uncultivated lands and unemployed poor, it is clear that the laws of property have been so far extended as to violate natural right, the earth is given as a common stock to man to labour & live on. if, for the encouragement of industry we allow it to be appropriated, we must take care that other employment be permitted to those excluded from the appropriation. if we do not the fundamental right to labour the earth returns to the unemployed. it is too soon yet in our country to say that every man who cannot find employment but who can find uncultivated land, shall be at liberty to cultivate it, paying a moderate rent, but it is not too soon to provide by every possible means that as few as possible shall be without a little portion of land. the small land holders are the most precious part of a state.”—Jefferson to Madison, Mad. MSS.





1

Malthus’ first edition of his Essay on the Principle of Population was not published till 1798.



1

in enumerating the distinctions between our mole & the comtildeon one of Europe, I find I omitted the difference of colour. You know the colour of ours, which is pretty remote from black, tho’ somewhat darkish. [Note in MS.]



1

Italics for cypher.



1

The claims of the State against the General Government. See Monroe’s letter. Writings, i., 135.



1

The MSS. records of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company in the office of the Company in Washington show the work referred to here of the Potomac Company.



1

The portions of the letter in cypher are represented by italics.



1

Monroe left the White House hopelessly broken in fortune and spent the latter part of his life in absolute poverty. Madison and Jefferson left behind them estates overburdened with debt. No one of the three possessed the talent of either making or saving money. It was this land speculation, however, which Madison believed would make him moderately wealthy.



1

August 15 Madison sent the substance of this part of the letter to Monroe. Mad. MSS.



1

From the Works of Madison.



2

“It has occurr’d to G[rayson] & myself to propose to Congress that negotiations be carried on with Spn. upon the following principles: 1. That exports be admitted thro’ the Mississippi to some free port—perhaps N. Orleans, to pay there a toll to Spn. of abt 3 pr. centm. ad valorem & to be carried thence under the regulations of Congress. 2. That imports shall pass into the Western country thro’ the ports of the U. S. only. 3. That this sacrifice be given up to obtain in other respects a beneficial treaty. I beg of you to give me yr. opinion on it.”—Monroe to Madison, August 14, 1786, Writings of Monroe, i., 151, 152.



1

New York Public Library (Lenox) MSS.



1

The instructions to Jay on the subject of the Mississippi negotiations having been in part repealed, the plan of the friends of the free navigation to order the transfer of negotiations to Madrid was blocked by a newly-adopted rule of Congress “that we shall not move in form or substance any proposition which has been set aside by the previous question, unless the same number of States are present.”—Monroe to Madison, Writings of Monroe, i., 159, 160.



2

The following bill is of interest as showing what Madison’s expenses were while he was attending the Annapolis convention:

“Colonel Madison’s Bill 1786. “Septr. 5 Lodging & Breakfast 3/9 Dinner 3/9 £ 0. 7. 0

wine 3/9 punch 2/6 porter 2/6 0. 8. 9

punch 1/ servt Board 12/ 0. 13. 0

6 Lodging & Breakfast 3/9 wine 2/6 0. 6. 3

porter 2/6 Dinner 3/9. Servt Grog 1/ 0. 7. 3

Board for Servt. 6/ 0. 6 0

“Septr. 7 Lodging and Breakfast 3/9 Tea 1/10 £ 0. 5. 7

Servt. Board 6/ 0. 6. 0

8 Lodging and Breakfast 3/9 Servt Board 6/ 0. 9. 9

9 Lodging and Breakfast 3/9 Punch 1/3 0. 5. 0

Dinner and Club 8/9 Tea 1/10 Servt Board 6/ 0. 16. 7

10 Lodging and Breakfast 3/9 Tea 1/10 Servt board 6/ 0. 11. 7

11 Lodging & Breakfast 3/9 Dinner 3/9 Club 5/ 0. 12. 6

Tea 1/10 Servt Board 6/ 0. 7. 10

12 Lodging & Breakfast 3/9 Dinner & Club 8/9 0. 12. 6

Tea 1/10 Servt Board 6/ 0. 7. 10

13 Lodging & Breakfast 3/9 Servt Board 6/ 0. 9. 9

Stabling & hay 45/ Oats 56 Gallons @ 10d 46/8/ 4. 11. 8

Omited the 4th Punch 2/6 Supper 3/ servt do. 2/ 4. 7. 6

Hay and Oats 6/8 4. 6. 8

14 Lodging & Breakfast 3/9 Dinner & Club 10/9 0. 14. 6

Servts Board 6/ Hay & Oats 11. 8 0. 11. 8

£ 14. 5. 8

15 Lodging 1/ Servt. 6/ 1. 6

£14. 7. 2



Contents Received in full

Geo Mann.” Mad. MSS.



1

The prospective treaty with Spain closing the navigation of the Mississippi.



1

The House of Delegates received a memorial from the delegates representing the counties of the district of Kentucky, setting forth that a report prevailed in that district that Congress proposed to cede to Spain the exclusive navigation of the Mississippi for twenty-five or thirty years, in consideration of some commercial advantages, that they conceived it their duty to represent that the prosperity of the Western country was absolutely dependent on the free navigation of that river, as without it they could not carry their produce to market; that Congress could not, without a flagrant violation of the confederation, deprive them of an advantage which nature had thus given them, and for the secure enjoyment of which the federal government was formed. Resolutions and instructions to the delegates in Congress in the sense of the memorial were passed by the House, November 29, 1786.—Journal of House of Delegates.



1

Edmund Randolph was elected.



1

The vote appears in the Journals of the House of Delegates as 85 to 17. The resolution was: “Resolved, that it is the opinion of this committee, [of the whole] that the petition of sundry inhabitants of the counties of Brunswick and Campbell, praying for an emission of paper money, are unreasonable and ought to be rejected; and that, in the opinion of this committee, an emission of paper money would be unjust, impolitic and destructive of public and private confidence, and of that virtue which is the basis of republican government.” Nevertheless, petitions praying for an emission of paper money were received by the House December 7.



1

Notes on the back of a letter to Madison from Robt. Johnson, dated 23d September, 1786:

Paper Emissions Unequal to specie. Bank notes. Stock.

Objectn. navy bills. tallies

Spanish paper Useless

Unjust either to Credts. or debtrs

1. alloy

2. Weights & measures

3. brass made for silver by Romns.

4. Case of debtrs to other States

Unconstitutional. 1. property decd by bill of Rights

Antifedl. 2. trial by Jury

Unnecessary. 1. produce will bring specie

2. paper in Tobo. notes Warrts. &c

Hurtful 1. by luxury increase, not cure the evil of scarcity of specie

2. destroy confidence public & private

3. source of dissension between States see Confedn. as to regulation of coin

4. enrich collectors, speculators &—

5. vitiate morals

6. reverse the end of Govt by punishing good Citizens & rewarding bad.

7. discourage foreign commerce &c

8. dishonor our Repub [illegible] the eyes of mankind

Examples of other States & during war

Objectn. paper good formerly

Answer. 1. Not true in N. E. Va. Maryd. 12 to 20 Per Ct.

2. Confidence then

3. principles of money not then understood

Such wd not then nor now do in Europe

Advantages from rejectg. paper

1. Distinguish the State & its credit

2. draw comtildeerce & specie

3. Not honorable [example] to other states.



—Mad. MSS.



1

Shortly after Cicero’s first great speech against Catiline, Catiline’s friend, Caius Manlius, despatched deputies to the Roman general, Quintus Marcius Rex, with instructions to say, among other things: “Often have your forefathers, taking compassion on the Roman people, relieved their poverty by their decrees; and very recently, within our memory, silver was paid with brass, owing to the pressure of debt, with the approval of all good citizens.”—Sallust’s Conspiracy of Catiline, ch. 33. The payments were in pursuance of a law proposed by L. Valerius Flaccus, Consul, A. U. C. 667. Only the fourth part was paid, an as for a sestertius, and a sestertius for a denarius.



1

Respecting Shay’s Rebellion.



1

“Alexa. 20th. Decr. 86.

“My Dear Sir,—After the notification of my disgrace which reached me about the 20th Nov. I hastened from N York & pressed forward to my home. Every difficulty of weather and roads opposed my progress and retarded me effectually, for it took us three weeks to reach this place which I had reckoned on accomplishing in twelve days. At length we arrived on the banks of patomac, and thro our avidity to embrace our friends, were on the point of destruction for some hours, by rashly adventuring to cross in the night, thro’ bodies of floating ice. But providence, kinder to me than my beloved country rescued my family & myself, with some detriment of sense but no injury to my reputation—striking difference to be sure, and a theme for unceasing admiration of the Supreme benevolence on my part. This subject always disturbs me & excites my resentment. But cruel & ungrateful as I estimate the treatment I have received from the assembly, I am frank to declare to you that the opinion I had formed of your dereliction of the friendship which existed between us rendered my affection doubly severe. In all nations precedents are to be found demonstrative of the caprice & indelicacy of public bodys, therefore being not alone I could have procured repose to my feelings that all who knew me, would attribute my dismission to the proper cause.

“Your abandonment of a man who loved your character to excess & who esteemed your friendship among the first blessings of his life connected with the circumstance of your election to the office from which he was dismissed, together with many other considerations which are unnecessary to repeat wounded me deeply, & has given me many melancholy hours. Your letter of the 11th. affords me some relief, & as it explains your intentions which before were subject to conjecture, strengthens my hope that you regard me as I have esteemed you, & that no difference in political sentiments ever has or ever can cool the affection which commenced in our youth, and till very lately has existed in full vigor. It is my wish that we may ever be united, & I believe you cannot question my sentiments, especially, when it relates to you.”—Henry Lee to Madison, Mad. MSS. Lee was soon restored to favor in the State. Madison wrote to him again November 23d..



1

“Resolved unanimously, That an act ought to pass, in conformity to the report of the Commissioners assembled at Annapolis on the 14th of September last, for appointing Commissioners on the part of this State, to meet Commissioners on the part of the other States, in Convention at Philadelphia, on the second Monday in May next, with powers to devise such further provision as shall appear to them necessary to render the constitution of the federal government adequate to the exigencies of the Union; and to report such an act for that purpose to the United States in Congress assembled, as when agreed to by them, and afterwards confirmed by the Legislature of every State, will effectually provide for the same.”

The resolution was written by Madison. The copy enclosed was contained in a newspaper clipping.



2

Henry refused to serve. The full Virginia delegation consisted of Madison, Wythe, Randolph, Mason, Blair and McClurg.



1

“The truth is, we have not a government to wield and correct. . . . We have only four States now on the floor.”—Carrington to Madison, from Congress, December 18, 1786. Mad. MSS.



1

Washington declined re-election to the presidency of the Society of the Cincinnati, chiefly because he did not wish to participate in a contest over a proposed change in the plan of the society, which was to be discussed at the meeting to be held at Philadelphia in May. He gave, as his reasons for not attending, his occupations, his precarious health, and that he desired to live in retirement. To serve in the federal convention when the Cincinnati were in session might put him in a false position. He finally yielded, however, to the pleadings of his friends. Washington to Madison, December 16, 1786, Ford’s Writings of Washington, ii, 92, et seq.



1

Cypher.



1

“Mr. James Madison, a delegate from Virginia, produced his credentials, by which it appears, that on the 7th of November last, he was appointed a delegate to serve in Congress until the first Monday in November, 1787.”—Journals of Congress, February 12, 1787, vol. xii., p. 9. (Ed. 1801.)



1

February 21, “Congress having had under consideration the letter of John Dickinson, Esq; chairman of the commissioners, who assembled at Annapolis, during the last year; also the proceedings of the said commissioners, and entirely coinciding with them, as to the inefficiency of the federal government, and the necessity of devising such farther provisions as shall render the same adequate to the exigencies of the union, do strongly recommend to the different legislatures to send forward delegates, to meet the proposed convention, on the second Monday in May next, at the city of Philadelphia.” On motion of the Massachusetts delegates the following was substituted: “Resolved, That in the opinion of Congress, it is expedient, that on the second Monday in May next, a convention of delegates, who shall have been appointed by the several states, be held at Philadelphia, for the sole and express purpose of revising the articles of confederation, and reporting to Congress and the several legislatures, such alternations and provisions therein, as shall, when agreed to in Congress, and confirmed by the States, render the federal constitution adequate to the exigencies of Government, and the preservation of the Union.”—Journals of Congress, xii., 13, 14. (Ed. 1801.)



1

“Extract of a letter from a Gentleman in Boston of the 4th. March 1787 to R. King

	James Madison





11 Mar. 1787

Fontainebleau



“— has come back from Virginia with news that the commissioners on the part of New York alarmed the Virginia Delegates, with an account that the Commissioners on the part of Massachusetts were for a monarchy; that those Delegates wrote their Legislature of it, who shut their Galeries and made a most serious Business of the matter—pray let me know by the next post what you hear of this, and what has been said—

“The Commissioners alluded to, are those who settled the late Territorial Controversy between Massachusetts & New York—

“Mr. King presents his compliments to Col. Grayson & Mr. Madison, and for the satisfaction of his friend, who wrote the Letter, from which the above is an Extract, begs to be informed whether they have any knowledge of a letter written by the Delegates of Virginia or any of them, containing the information suggested in the Extract, or of any proceedings of the Virginia Legislature of the nature alleged. . . .

“Monday morng.

11 Mar. 1787

.”

Mad. MSS.





1

“On my way to this place I met a man from the Settlement on Cumberland River in North Carolina who had just come by the way of Kentucky. He informs me that the minds of all the Western People are agitated on account of the proposed cession of the Mississippi navigation to Spain every person talks of it with indignation and reprobates it as a measure of the greatest Injustice and Despotism declaring that if it takes place they will look upon themselves released from all Federal Obligations and fully at Liberty to seek alliances & connections wherever they can find them and that the British Officers at Detroit have already been tampering with them. I am apprehensive that these matters will hasten the separation of the District of Kentucky prematurely from the other part of the State. * * *” John Campbell to Madison, Pittsburgh, February 21, 1787. Mad. MSS.



1

From Madison’s Works. The correct date of the letter is doubtless March 18th, as Jefferson acknowledged on June 20th the receipt of two letters, dated respectively March 18th and 19th, and this letter evidently preceded the other letter to Jefferson dated March 19th. The letter should be taken in connection with that of April 8th to Randolph and April 16th to Washington as developing Madison’s plan of government. See also the letter on the subject of the Kentucky constitution, January 6, 1785, to George Muter.



1

From the Madison Papers (1840).



1

From the Madison Papers (1840).



2

The Jay project for a treaty with Spain.



1

From the Madison Papers (1840).



1

From the Madison Papers (1840).



2

March 21, 1787, Congress unanimously resolved that the Legislatures of the several States could not, of right, pass acts for interpreting or construing a treaty, nor in any manner retard its operation, and that all State acts repugnant to the treaty of peace with Great Britain ought to be repealed, and the State Legislatures were requested to repeal them. Journals of Congress (Ed. 1801), xii., 23, 24. On April 13th, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs (Jay) reported a letter to the States, which was agreed to, to accompany the resolutions of March 21st. It regretted that in some of the States too little attention had been paid to the public faith pledged by the treaty, and urged the binding nature of a treaty upon each member of the Confederacy. Id. 22, et seq.



1

From the Madison Papers (1840).



1

This memorandum is written on small sheets of paper, which, put together, formed a compact little book, suited to be carried in the pocket. There are 39 pages, and it would seem Madison intended extending it, for an extra page is headed “Gryson Confederacy.”



2

L’Esprit des Lois (1748).



3

Canton of Grisons, Switzerland.



4

Code de l’Humanité on la Legislation, by Felice in 13 vols.



1

Translation: Strabo [Lib. xiv, cap. iii], moreover, mentions the lack of laws of the Lycians: concerning which we will add a little to what he says.—There were twenty-three cities, divided into three classes, according to their power. To the first class belonged the six largest, to the second those of intermediate rank, the number of which is uncertain, to the third all the rest, whose importance was very small. And each of these cities took care of its affairs at home, and had its own magistrates and its own system of civil government, but all, uniting, formed one joint republic, and had one deliberative assembly, a greater senate, as it were. In that assembly they deliberated and decided concerning war, peace and treaties, and, in a word, concerning all the affairs of Lycia. Persons sent from each city with the right to vote met in this assembly; and, in that matter, they were governed by a most equitable law. For any city of the first class had the right to cast three votes, of the second two, of the third one. In the same proportion they also paid taxes, and performed other duties. For as reason itself dictates, and as equity demands that those who possess more and are richer than others, should contribute more to the public service and the support of the State, thus also the same rule of equity requires that, in deciding with regard to the common interest, those same persons should have greater influence than others; especially since they are more interested in the welfare of the State than are the poor. They had no fixed place for this assembly, but they selected, from the entire number, the city that seemed best suited to the occasion. The assembly having convened, they first designated a Lyciarch as head of the whole State; they next chose other magistrates to govern the component parts of the State, and finally, they established courts of justice. And they did all these things maintaining the same proportion, so that no city was neglected, or was excluded from participation in these functions and honors. And this state of things remained unchanged until the time when the Romans, having become masters of Asia, brought it also under their control.



1

Encyclopédie, published under the direction of Diderot and d’Alembert.



1

John Potter’s Archeologia Græca, two volumes, Oxford, (1688-9).



1

Polybe’s General History (probably the Paris edition of 1609).



1

Translation: This assembly was invested with the supreme authority, and in pursuance of its decisions wars were begun and ended, and laws became valid and were abrogated. It was also within its province to choose magistrates common to the whole community, to decide upon sending embassies, etc. . . . The prætor, especially, presided over the assembly, if he was present, and also other magistrates, whom the Achæi called δημιουςγοί. These were ten in number, and were elected from the entire community by a vote of the legitimate assembly (which was held in the spring) as being eminent for wisdom, and their advice was mainly followed by the prætor, according to law. Their power and dignity were next to those of the prætor and therefore Livy, following Polybius(II, 38 seq.), calls them the chief magistracy of the Achæans. With these therefore the prætor consulted beforehand concerning the transaction of the more important business in the assembly, nor was it allowable, unless the majority concurred, to lay it before the assembly.

That was indeed a specially memorable law, drawing very close the bond of the Achæan league, and strengthening harmony; by it any city forming part of this league was forbidden to send, independently, ambassadors to any foreign nation; they were not to send them to the Romans, and not to others. And this was expressly inserted in the treaties of the Achæans with the Roman people. . . . The most excellent law of all was in force among them . . . whereby any one, whether a private individual or a magistrate, was forbidden to accept gifts from any King on any account whatever.



1

Note in Madison’s writings: By ye Convention of Stantz, any member attacked has a direct claim on the succour of the whole confederacy. Coxe, p. 343. William Coxe’s Voyages.



1

Sir William Temple’s Remarks on the United Provinces (1674).



1

Gabriel Bonnot de Mably (1709-1785).



1

From the context it would appear that this sketch was written about the year 1835, when Madison was preparing for posthumous publication his journal of the constitutional convention. It is an exceedingly rough draft, written upon separate slips of paper, and some of these slips have been lost since Gilpin used the sketch in his edition of Madison’s Works (1840). The Bulletin of the Bureau of Rolls and Library, Department of State, No. 9, October, 1897, contained about a fifth part of the sketch, but since then all of it has been found, except the last four paragraphs which are reprinted here from the Gilpin edition.



2

The word “confederacies” also appears here parallel with “confederal.”



3

The word “operations” also appears here.



4

“and leading to another” also appears.



5

The word “precedent” also appears.



1

“extortion” also appears.



2

“plan” also appears.



3

“experimental” also appears.



4

“met” also appears.



1

“preliminary” also appears.



1

“that would not be abandoned” also appears.



2

“reluctance” also appears.



1

“was” also appears.



2

“relief” also appears.



1

See address of Congress. Note in MS. It may be found in Vol. I, p. 454, n., of this edition.



2

“cause” also appears.



3

“to” also appears.



1

“its members” also appear.



2

“Resolved, that Edmund Randolph, James Madison, Jr., Walter Jones, St. George Tucker, and Meriwether Smith, Esquires, be appointed Commissioners, who, or any three of whom, shall meet such Commissioners as may be appointed in the other States of the Union, at a time and place to be agreed on, to take into consideration the trade of the United States; to examine the relative situations and trade of said States; to consider how far a uniform system in their commercial regulations may be necessary to their common interest and their permanent harmony; and to report to the several States such an act, relative to this great object, as, when unanimously ratified by them, will enable the United States in Congress effectually to provide for the same.” See Madison’s letter of Jany. 22, 1786, to Jefferson.



1

The adoption of the address was the only thing done by the Annapolis meeting. The draft was submitted by Hamilton at a conference and some of the more radical features were toned down at the insistence of Randolph. Madison said to Hamilton: “You had better yield to this man, for otherwise all Virginia will be against you.”—Morse’s Hamilton, I, 167. The address was as follows:

* * * “Deeply impressed, however, with the magnitude and importance of the object confided to them on this occasion, your Commissioners cannot forbear to indulge an expression of their earnest and unanimous wish, that speedy measures may be taken to effect a general meeting of the States in a future Convention, for the same and such other purposes, as the situation of public affairs may be found to require.

“If, in expressing this wish, or in intimating any other sentiment, your Commissioners should seem to exceed the strict bounds of their appointment, they entertain a full confidence, that a conduct dictated by an anxiety for the welfare of the United States will not fail to receive an indulgent construction.

“In this persuasion, your Commissioners submit an opinion, that the idea of extending the powers of their Deputies to other objects than those of commerce, which has been adopted by the State of New Jersey, was an improvement on the original plan, and will deserve to be incorporated into that of a future Convention. They are the more naturally led to this conclusion, as, in the course of their reflections on the subject, they have been induced to think that the power of regulating trade is of such comprehensive extent, and will enter so far into the general system of the Federal Government, that to give it efficacy, and to obviate questions and doubts concerning its precise nature and limits, may require a correspondent adjustment of other parts of the Federal System.

“That there are important defects in the system of the Federal Government, is acknowledged by the acts of all those States which have concurred in the present meeting. That the defects, upon a closer examination, may be found greater and more numerous than even these acts imply, is at least so far probable, from the embarrassments which characterize the present state of our national affairs, foreign and domestic, as may reasonably be supposed to merit a deliberate and candid discussion, in some mode which will unite the sentiments and councils of all the States. In the choice of the mode, your Commissioners are of opinion, that a Convention of deputies from the different States, for the special and sole purpose of entering into this investigation, and digesting a plan for supplying such defects as may be discovered to exist, will be entitled to a preference, from considerations which will occur without being particularized.

“Your Commissioners decline an enumeration of those national circumstances on which their opinion, respecting the propriety of a future Convention with more enlarged powers, is founded; as it would be an useless intrusion of facts and observations, most of which have been frequently the subject of public discussion, and none of which can have escaped the penetration of those to whom they would in this instance be addressed. They are, however, of a nature so serious, as, in the view of your Commissioners, to render the situation of the United States delicate and critical, calling for an exertion of the united virtue and wisdom of all the members of the Confederacy.

“Under this impression, your Commissioners, with the most respectful deference, beg leave to suggest their unanimous conviction, that it may essentially tend to advance the interests of the Union, if the States by whom they have been respectively delegated would themselves concur, and use their endeavors to procure the concurrence of the other States, in the appointment of Commissioners, to meet at Philadelphia on the second Monday in May next, to take into consideration the situation of the United States; to devise such further provisions as shall appear to them necessary to render the constitution of the Federal Government adequate to the exigencies of the Union; and to report such an act for that purpose, to the United States in Congress assembled, as, when agreed to by them, and afterwards confirmed by the Legislatures of every State, will effectually provide for the same.

“Though your Commissioners could not with propriety address these observations and sentiments to any but the States they have the honor to represent, they have nevertheless concluded, from motives of respect, to transmit copies of this Report to the United States in Congress assembled, and to the Executives of the other States.”



1

“Trust” also appears.



2

“Bill” and “act” also appear.



3

“Bill” also appears.



4

It was written by Madison:

“Whereas, the Commissioners who assembled at Annapolis, on the fourteenth day of September last, for the purpose of devising and reporting the means of enabling Congress to provide effectually for the commercial interests of the United States, have represented the necessity of extending the revision of the Federal system to all its defects; and have recommended that deputies for that purpose be appointed by the several Legislatures, to meet in Convention in the City of Philadelphia, on the second Monday of May next,—a provision which seems preferable to a discussion of the subject in Congress, where it might be too much interrupted by the ordinary business before them, and where it would, besides, be deprived of the valuable counsels of sundry individuals who are disqualified by the constitutions or laws of particular States, or restrained by peculiar circumstances from a seat in that Assembly:

“And whereas, the General Assembly of this Commonwealth, taking into view the actual situation of the Confederacy, as well as reflecting on the alarming representations made from time to time, by the United States in Congress, particularly in their act of the fifteenth day of February last, can no longer doubt that the crisis is arrived at which the good people of America are to decide the solemn question, whether they will, by wise and magnanimous efforts, reap the just fruits of that independence which they have so gloriously acquired, and of that union which they have cemented with so much of their common blood; or whether, by giving way to unmanly jealousies and prejudices, or to partial and transitory interests, they will renounce the auspicious blessings prepared for them by the Revolution, and furnish to its enemies an eventual triumph over those, by whose virtue and valour, it has been accomplished:

“And whereas, the same noble and extended policy, and the same fraternal and affectionate sentiments, which originally determined the citizens of this Commonwealth to unite with their brethren of the other States, in establishing a federal government, cannot but be felt with equal force now, as motives to lay aside every inferior consideration, and to concur in such farther concessions and provisions, as may be necessary to secure the great objects for which that government was instituted, and to render the United States as happy in peace, as they have been glorious in war.

“Be it, therefore, enacted, by the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia, That seven Commissioners be appointed by joint ballot of both Houses of Assembly, who, or any three of them, are hereby authorized as Deputies of this Commonwealth, to meet such Deputies as may be appointed and authorized by other States, to assemble in Convention at Philadelphia, as above recommended, and to join with them in devising and discussing all such alterations and farther provisions, as may be necessary to render the Federal Constitution adequate to the exigencies of the Union; and in reporting such an act for that purpose, to the United States in Congress, as when agreed to by them, and duly confirmed by the several States, will effectually provide for the same.

“And be it further enacted, That in case of the death of any of the said deputies, or of their declining their appointments, the Executive are hereby authorized to supply such vacancies; and the Governor is requested to transmit forthwith a copy of this act to the United States in Congress, and to the Executives of each of the States in the Union.”



1

See Alexander Hamilton to James Duane, Sept. 3, 1780. Works of Hamilton (Lodge), i., 203.



2

— he wished to see a general convention with the object of strengthening the federal constitution instead of several conventions of representatives of the several sections of the country. Vol. i., 439, of this edition.



3

The reference is incorrect, and should be to the sketch of Hamilton in Longacre, Vol. ii.: “The same legislature [of 1782] that appointed him [Hamilton] unanimously passed resolutions, introduced into the senate by General Schuyler, declaring that the confederation was defective in not giving congress power to provide revenue for itself, or in not investing them with funds from established and productive sources; and that it would be advisable to revise and amend the confederation.”



4

— that a general convention to revise the articles of confederation is being talked about in congress.



5

— that he favors the project, but doubts if it is favored in Virginia. See his letter to Lee, December 24, 1784, ante.



1

“Sketches of American Policy,” published in the winter of 1784-85. Longacre Vol. ii.



2

Cf. the letters of Monroe to Madison, December 26, 1785, February 11 and March 19, 1786. Writings of Monroe, i., 109, 122, 123. The letter of Grayson is dated New York, March 22, 1786:

* * * * * * * *

“There has been a great contest in Jersey for the Argent papier; but though it went triumphantly through the lower house, it was lost in the Council, 8 to 5,—some of the Members who were adverse to it, have been burnt in effigy, in particular Colo Ogden at or near Elizabeth town: the old Governor was drawn up to the Stake but pardoned, on account of his having been the first magistrate: This same Jersey bill was one of the most iniquitous things I ever saw in my life; the money was a tender, if it was refused, the debt was suspended for 12 years, in the mean time the act of limitation ran of course, which in effect destroyed it.—Jersey has not been singular in her attempts at cheating: in this place a bill is depending, of the same purport as that of Jersey, & which it is probable will pass, although it is violently opposed by the upright & respectable part of the Commy. The Antients were surely men of more candor than We are; they contended openly for an abolition of debts in so many words, while we strive as hard for the same thing under the decent & specious pretense of a circulating medium. Montesquieu was not wrong when he said the democratical might be as tyranical as the despotic, for where is there a greater act of despotism than that of issuing paper to depreciate for the purpose of paying debts, on easy terms; If Lord Effingham is right that an act agt. the Constitution is void, surely paper money with a tender annexed to it is void for is it not an attack upon property, the security of which is made a fundamental in every State in the Union:—There has been some serious thoughts in the minds of some of the Members of Congress to recommend to the States the meeting of a general Convention, to consider, of an alteration of the Confederation & there is a motion to this effect now under Consideration: it is contended that the present Confederation is utterly inefficient, and that if it remains much longer in its present State of imbecillity we shall be one of the most contemptible Nations on the face of the Earth:—for my own part I have not yet made up my mind on the subject: I am doubtful whether it is not better to bear those ills we have than fly to others that we know not of: I am however in no doubt about the weakness of the foederal Government: if it was weaker notwithstanding, it would answer if the States had power as in the United Netherlands the foederal Government is weak but the Individual States are strong—It is no wonder our Government should not work well, being formed on the Dutch model where circumstances are so materially different:— * * * .”



1

“High” also appears.



1

The allusion is to the act of the Virginia Assembly passed January 21, 1786, imposing a tonnage tax of 5s. on vessels of foreigners, described in Madison’s letter to Monroe of January 22, 1786, ante.



1

“appearances” also appears.



1

June 27, 1786, Jay wrote to Washington: “What I most fear is, that the better kind of people (by which I mean the people who are orderly and industrious, who are content with their situations, and not uneasy in their circumstances) will be led by the insecurity of property, the loss of confidence in their rulers, and the want of public faith and rectitude, to consider the charms of liberty as imaginary and delusive. A state of uncertainty and fluctuation must disgust and alarm such men, and prepare their minds for almost any change that may promise them quiet and security.” In the course of his reply Washington said: “What astonishing changes a few years are capable of producing! I am told that even respectable characters speak of a monarchical form of government without horror. From thinking, proceeds speaking, thence to acting is often but a single step. But how irrevocable and tremendous! what a triumph for our enemies to verify their predictions!—what a triumph for the advocates of despotism to find that we are incapable of governing ourselves, and that systems founded on the basis of equal liberty are merely ideal and fallacious! Would to God that wise measures may be taken in time to avert the consequences we have but too much reason to apprehend.”—Marshall’s Washington (2d. Ed.), ii., 107, 109.

From New York, October 28, 1786, Knox wrote to Washington as follows:

“. . . Our political machine constituted of thirteen independent sovereignties, have [sic] been constantly operating against each other, and against the federal head, ever since the peace. The powers of Congress are utterly inadequate to preserve the balance between the respective States, and oblige them to do those things which are essential to their own welfare, and for the general good. The human mind in the local legislatures seems to be exerted, to prevent the federal constitution from having any beneficial effects. The machine works inversely to the public good in all its parts. Not only is State against State, and all against the federal head, but the States within themselves possess the name only, without having the essential concomitant of government, the power of preserving the peace, the protection of the liberties and property of the citizens.

“On the first impression of Faction and licentiousness the fine theoretic government of Massachusetts has given way, and its laws arrested and trampled under foot. Men at a distance, who have admired our systems of government, unfounded in nature, are apt to accuse the rulers, and say that taxes have been assessed too high and collected too rigidly. This is a deception equal to any that has hitherto been entertained. It is indeed a fact, that high taxes are the ostensible cause of the commotions, but that they are the real cause is as far remote from truth as light from darkness. The people who are the insurgents have never paid any, or but very little taxes. But they see the weakness of government; They feel at once their own poverty, compared with the opulent, and their own force, and they are determined to make use of the latter, in order to remedy the former. Their creed is ‘That the property of the United States has been protected from the confiscation of Great Britain by the joint exertions of all, and therefore ought to be the common property of all. And he that attempts opposition to this creed is an enemy to equity and justice, and ought to be swept from off the face of the earth.’ In a word they are determined to annihilate all debts public and private and have agrarian Laws, which are easily affected by the means of unfortunate paper money which shall be a tender in all cases whatever.

“The numbers of these people amount in Massachusetts to about one fifth part of several populous counties, and to them may be collected, people of similar sentiments, from the States of Rhode Island, Connecticut and New Hampshire so as to constitute a body of 12 or 15000 desperate & unprincipled men. They are chiefly of the young and active part of the community, more easily collected than perhaps kept together afterwards. But they will probably commit overt acts of treason, which will compell them to embody for their own safety—once embodied they will be constrained to submit to discipline for the same reason. Having proceeded to this length for which they are now ripe, we shall have a formidable rebellion against reason, the principles of all government, and the very name of liberty. This dreadful situation has alarmed every man of principle and property in New England. They start as from a dream, and ask what has been the cause of our delusion? what is to afford us security against the violence of lawless men? Our government must be braced, changed, or altered to secure our lives and property. We imagined that the mildness of our government and the virtue of the people were so correspondent, that we were not as other nations requiring brutal force to support the laws. But we find that we are men, actual men, possessing all the turbulent passions belonging to that animal and that we must have government proper and adequate for him. The people of Massachusetts for instance, are far advanced in this doctrine, and the men of reflection, & principle, are determined to endeavor to establish a government which shall have the power to protect them in their lawful pursuits, and which will be efficient in all cases of internal commotions or foreign invasions. They mean that liberty shall be the basis, a liberty resulting from the equal and firm administration of the laws. They wish for a general government of unity as they see the local legislatures, must naturally and necessarily tend to retard and frustrate all general government.

“We have arrived at that point of time in which we are forced to see our national humiliation, and that a progression in this line, cannot be productive of happiness either public or private. Something is wanting and something must be done or we shall be involved in all the horror of faction and civil war without a prospect of its termination. Every tried friend to the liberties of his country is bound to reflect, and to step forward to prevent the dreadful consequences which will result from a government of events. Unless this is done we shall be liable to be ruled by an arbitrary and capricious armed tyranny, whose word and will must be law. . . .”—Wash. MSS.



1

“perhaps” also appears.

