[NOTE C.]

_On the instructions given to the first delegation of Virginia to
Congress, in August, 1774._

The Legislature of Virginia happened to be in session, in Williamsburg,
when news was received of the passage, by the British Parliament, of
the Boston Port Bill, which was to take effect on the first day of June
then ensuing. The House of Burgesses, thereupon, passed a resolution,
recommending to their fellow-citizens, that that day should be set
apart for fasting and prayer to the Supreme Being, imploring him to
avert the calamities then threatening us, and to give us one heart and
one mind to oppose every invasion of our liberties. The next day, May
the 20th, 1774, the Governor dissolved us. We immediately repaired to
a room in the Raleigh tavern, about one hundred paces distant from the
Capitol, formed ourselves into a meeting, Peyton Randolph in the chair,
and came to resolutions, declaring, that an attack on one colony, to
enforce arbitrary acts, ought to be considered as an attack on all, and
to be opposed by the united wisdom of all. We, therefore, appointed
a Committee of correspondence, to address letters to the Speakers of
the several Houses of Representatives of the colonies, proposing the
appointment of deputies from each, to meet _annually in a General
Congress_, to deliberate on their common interests, and on the measures
to be pursued in common. The members then separated to their several
homes, except those of the Committee, who met the next day, prepared
letters according to instructions, and despatched them by messengers
express, to their several destinations. It had been agreed, also,
by the meeting, that the Burgesses, who should be elected under the
writs then issuing, should be requested to meet in Convention, on a
certain day in August, to learn the results of these letters, and to
appoint delegates to a Congress, should that measure be approved by
the other colonies. At the election, the people re-elected every man
of the former Assembly, as a proof of their approbation of what they
had done. Before I left home, to attend the Convention, I prepared
what I thought might be given, in instruction, to the Delegates who
should be appointed to attend the General Congress proposed. They were
drawn in haste, with a number of blanks, with some uncertainties and
inaccuracies of historical facts, which I neglected at the moment,
knowing they could be readily corrected at the meeting. I set out on my
journey, but was taken sick on the road, and was unable to proceed. I
therefore sent on, by express, two copies, one under cover to Patrick
Henry, the other to Peyton Randolph, who I knew would be in the chair
of the Convention. Of the former, no more was ever heard or known.
Mr. Henry probably thought it too bold, as a first measure, as the
majority of the members did. On the other copy being laid on the table
of the Convention, by Peyton Randolph, as the proposition of a member,
who was prevented from attendance by sickness on the road, tamer
sentiments were preferred, and, I believe, wisely preferred; the leap
I proposed being too long, as yet, for the mass of our citizens. The
distance between these, and the instructions actually adopted, is of
some curiosity, however, as it shews the inequality of pace with which
we moved, and the prudence required to keep front and rear together.
My creed had been formed on unsheathing the sword at Lexington. They
printed the paper, however, and gave it the title of 'A summary view
of the rights of British America.' In this form it got to London, where
the opposition took it up, shaped it to opposition views, and, in that
form, it ran rapidly through several editions.

Mr. Marshall, in his history of General Washington, chapter 3,
speaking of this proposition for Committees of correspondence and for
a General Congress, says, 'this measure had already been proposed in
town meeting, in Boston,' and some pages before, he had said, that 'at
a session of the General Court of Massachusetts, in September, 1770,
that Court, in pursuance of a favorite idea of uniting all the colonies
in one system of measures, elected a Committee of correspondence, to
communicate with such Committees as might be appointed by the other
colonies.' This is an error. The Committees of correspondence, elected
by Massachusetts, were expressly for a correspondence among the several
_towns_ of that province only. Besides the text of their proceedings,
his own note X, proves this. The first proposition for a general
correspondence between the several states, and for a General Congress,
was made by our meeting of May, 1774. Botta, copying Marshall, has
repeated his error, and so it will be handed on from copyist to
copyist, _ad infinitum_. Here follows my proposition, and the more
prudent one which was adopted.

Resolved, That it be an instruction to the said deputies, when
assembled in General Congress, with the deputies from the other states
of British America, to propose to the said Congress, that an humble
and dutiful address be presented to his Majesty, begging leave to
lay before him, as Chief Magistrate of the British empire, the united
complaints of his Majesty's subjects in America; complaints which are
excited by many unwarrantable encroachments and usurpations, attempted
to be made by the legislature of one part of the empire, upon the
rights which God, and the laws, have given equally and independently
to all. To represent to his Majesty that these, his States, have often
individually made humble application to his imperial Throne, to obtain,
through its intervention, some redress of their injured rights; to
none of which, was ever even an answer condescended. Humbly to hope
that this, their joint address, penned in the language of truth, and
divested of those expressions of servility, which would persuade his
Majesty that we are asking favors, and not rights, shall obtain from
his Majesty a more respectful acceptance; and this his Majesty will
think we have reason to expect, when he reflects that he is no more
than the chief officer of the people, appointed by the laws, and
circumscribed with definite powers, to assist in working the great
machine of government, erected for their use, and, consequently,
subject to their superintendence; and, in order that these, our rights,
as well as the invasions of them, may be laid more fully before his
Majesty, to take a view of them, from the origin and first settlement
of these countries.

To remind him that our ancestors, before their emigration to America,
were the free inhabitants of the British dominions in Europe, and
possessed a right, which nature has given to all men, of departing
from the country in which chance, not choice, has placed them, of going
in quest of new habitations, and of there establishing new societies,
under such laws and regulations as, to them, shall seem most likely to
promote public happiness. That their Saxon ancestors had, under this
universal law, in like manner, left their native wilds and woods in the
North of Europe, had possessed themselves of the Island of Britain,
then less charged with inhabitants, and had established there that
system of laws which has so long been the glory and protection of that
country. Nor was ever any claim of superiority or dependence asserted
over them, by that mother country from which they had migrated: and
were such a claim made, it is believed his Majesty's subjects in Great
Britain have too firm a feeling of the rights derived to them from
their ancestors, to bow down the sovereignty of their state before
such visionary pretensions. And it is thought that no circumstance
has occurred to distinguish, materially, the British from the Saxon
emigration. America was conquered, and her settlements made and
firmly established, at the expense of individuals, and not of the
British public. Their own blood was spilt in acquiring lands for their
settlement, their own fortunes expended in making that settlement
effectual. For themselves they fought, for themselves they conquered,
and for themselves alone they have right to hold. No shilling was ever
issued from the public treasures of his Majesty, or his ancestors,
for their assistance, till of very late times, after the colonies
had become established on a firm and permanent footing. That then,
indeed, having become valuable to Great Britain for her commercial
purposes, his Parliament was pleased to lend them assistance against
an enemy who would fain have drawn to herself the benefits of their
commerce, to the great aggrandisement of herself, and danger of Great
Britain. Such assistance, and in such circumstances, they had often
before given to Portugal and other allied states, with whom they
carry on a commercial intercourse. Yet these states never supposed,
that by calling in her aid, they thereby submitted themselves to her
sovereignty. Had such terms been proposed, they would have rejected
them with disdain, and trusted for better, to the moderation of their
enemies, or to a vigorous exertion of their own force. We do not,
however, mean to underrate those aids, which, to us, were doubtless
valuable, on whatever principles granted: but we would shew that they
cannot give a title to that authority which the British Parliament
would arrogate over us; and that may amply be repaid by our giving to
the inhabitants of Great Britain such exclusive privileges in trade as
may be advantageous to them, and, at the same time, not too restrictive
to ourselves. That settlement having been thus effected in the wilds
of America, the emigrants thought proper to adopt that system of laws,
under which they had hitherto lived in the mother country, and to
continue their union with her, by submitting themselves to the same
common sovereign, who was thereby made the central link, connecting the
several parts of the empire thus newly multiplied.

But that not long were they permitted, however far they thought
themselves removed from the hand of oppression, to hold undisturbed the
rights thus acquired at the hazard of their lives and loss of their
fortunes. A family of Princes was then on the British throne, whose
treasonable crimes against their people, brought on them, afterwards,
the exertion of those sacred and sovereign rights of punishment,
reserved in the hands of the people for cases of extreme necessity,
and judged by the constitution unsafe to be delegated to any other
judicature. While every day brought forth some new and unjustifiable
exertion of power over their subjects on that side of the water, it
was not to be expected that those here, much less able at that time
to oppose the designs of despotism, should be exempted from injury.
Accordingly, this country which had been acquired by the lives, the
labors, and fortunes of individual adventurers, was by these Princes,
several times, parted out and distributed among the favorites and
followers of their fortunes; and, by an assumed right of the Crown
alone, were erected into distinct and independent governments; a
measure, which it is believed, his Majesty's prudence and understanding
would prevent him from imitating at this day; as no exercise of such
power, of dividing and dismembering a country, has ever occurred in his
Majesty's realm of England, though now of very ancient standing; nor
could it be justified or acquiesced under there, or in any part of his
Majesty's empire.

That the exercise of a free trade with all parts of the world,
possessed by the American colonists, as of natural right, and which
no law of their own had taken away or abridged, was next the object
of unjust encroachment. Some of the colonies having thought proper
to continue the administration of their government in the name and
under the authority of his Majesty, King Charles the first, whom,
notwithstanding his late deposition by the Commonwealth of England,
they continued in the sovereignty of their State, the Parliament,
for the Commonwealth, took the same in high offence, and assumed upon
themselves the power of prohibiting their trade with all other parts
of the world, except the Island of Great Britain. This arbitrary act,
however, they soon recalled, and by solemn treaty entered into on
the 12th day of March, 1651, between the said Commonwealth, by their
Commissioners, and the colony of Virginia by their House of Burgesses,
it was expressly stipulated by the eighth article of the said treaty,
that they should have 'free trade as the people of England do enjoy
to all places and with all nations, according to the laws of that
Commonwealth.' But that, upon the restoration of his Majesty, King
Charles the second, their rights of free commerce fell once more a
victim to arbitrary power; and by several acts of his reign, as well
as of some of his successors, the trade of the colonies was laid under
such restrictions, as show what hopes they might form from the justice
of a British Parliament, were its uncontrolled power admitted over
these States.[24] History has informed us, that bodies of men as well
as of individuals, are susceptible of the spirit of tyranny. A view
of these acts of Parliament for regulation, as it has been affectedly
called, of the American trade, if all other evidences were removed out
of the case, would undeniably evince the truth of this observation.
Besides the duties they impose on our articles of export and import,
they prohibit our going to any markets Northward of Cape Finisterra, in
the kingdom of Spain, for the sale of commodities which Great Britain
will not take from us, and for the purchase of others, with which she
cannot supply us; and that, for no other than the arbitrary purpose of
purchasing for themselves, by a sacrifice of our rights and interests,
certain privileges in their commerce with an allied state, who, in
confidence, that their exclusive trade with America will be continued,
while the principles and power of the British Parliament be the same,
have indulged themselves in every exorbitance which their avarice
could dictate or our necessity extort: have raised their commodities
called for in America, to the double and treble of what they sold for,
before such exclusive privileges were given them, and of what better
commodities of the same kind would cost us elsewhere; and, at the same
time, give us much less for what we carry thither, than might be had
at more convenient ports. That these acts prohibit us from carrying, in
quest of other purchasers, the surplus of our tobaccos, remaining after
the consumption of Great Britain is supplied: so that we must leave
them with the British merchant, for whatever he will please to allow
us, to be by him re-shipped to foreign markets, where he will reap the
benefits of making sale of them for full value. That, to heighten still
the idea of Parliamentary justice, and to show with what moderation
they are like to exercise power, where themselves are to feel no
part of its weight, we take leave to mention to his Majesty, certain
other acts of the British Parliament, by which they would prohibit
us from manufacturing, for our own use, the articles we raise on our
own lands, with our own labor. By an act passed in the fifth year of
the reign of his late Majesty, King George the second, an American
subject is forbidden to make a hat for himself, of the fur which he
has taken, perhaps, on his own soil; an instance of despotism, to
which no parallel can be produced in the most arbitrary ages of British
history. By one other act, passed in the twenty-third year of the same
reign, the iron which we make, we are forbidden to manufacture; and,
heavy as that article is, and necessary in every branch of husbandry,
besides commission and insurance, we are to pay freight for it to Great
Britain, and freight for it back again, for the purpose of supporting,
not men, but machines, in the island of Great Britain. In the same
spirit of equal and impartial legislation, is to be viewed the act
of Parliament, passed in the fifth year of the same reign, by which
American lands are made subject to the demands of British creditors,
while their own lands were still continued unanswerable for their
debts; from which, one of these conclusions must necessarily follow,
either that justice is not the same thing in America as in Britain,
or else, that the British Parliament pay less regard to it here than
there. But, that we do not point out to his Majesty the injustice
of these acts, with intent to rest on that principle the cause of
their nullity; but to show that experience confirms the propriety
of those political principles, which exempt us from the jurisdiction
of the British Parliament. The true ground on which we declare these
acts void, is, that the British Parliament has no right to exercise
authority over us.

That these exercises of usurped power have not been confined to
instances alone, in which themselves were interested; but they have
also intermeddled with the regulation of the internal affairs of the
colonies. The act of the 9th of Anne for establishing a post office in
America, seems to have had little connection with British convenience,
except that of accommodating his Majesty's ministers and favorites with
the sale of a lucrative and easy office.

That thus have we hastened through the reigns which preceded his
Majesty's, during which the violation of our rights were less alarming,
because repeated at more distant intervals, than that rapid and bold
succession of injuries, which is likely to distinguish the present from
all other periods of American story. Scarcely have our minds been able
to emerge from the astonishment into which one stroke of Parliamentary
thunder has involved us, before another more heavy and more alarming is
fallen on us. Single acts of tyranny may be ascribed to the accidental
opinion of a day; but a series of oppressions, begun at a distinguished
period, and pursued unalterably through every change of ministers,
too plainly prove a deliberate, systematical plan of reducing us to
slavery.

[Sidenote: Act for granting certain duties.]

That the act passed in the fourth year of his Majesty's reign, entitled
'an act

[Sidenote: Stamp act.]

One other act passed in the fifth year of his reign, entitled 'an act

[Sidenote: Act declaring the right of Parliament over the colonies.]

One other act passed in the sixth year of his reign, entitled 'an act

[Sidenote: Act for granting duties on paper, tea, &c.]

And one other act passed in the seventh year of his reign, entitled 'an
act

Form that connected chain of Parliamentary usurpation, which has
already been the subject of frequent applications to his Majesty,
and the Houses of Lords and Commons of Great Britain; and, no answers
having yet been condescended to any of these, we shall not trouble his
Majesty with a repetition of the matters they contained.

[Sidenote: Act suspending legislature of New-York.]

But that one other act passed in the same seventh year of his reign,
having been a peculiar attempt, must ever require peculiar mention. It
is entitled 'an act

One free and independent legislature, hereby takes upon itself to
suspend the powers of another, free and independent as itself. Thus
exhibiting a phenomenon unknown in nature, the creator, and creature of
its own power. Not only the principles of common sense, but the common
feelings of human nature must be surrendered up, before his Majesty's
subjects here, can be persuaded to believe, that they hold their
political existence at the will of a British Parliament. Shall these
governments be dissolved, their property annihilated, and their people
reduced to a state of nature, at the imperious breath of a body of men
whom they never saw, in whom they never confided, and over whom they
have no powers of punishment or removal, let their crimes against the
American public be ever so great? Can any one reason be assigned, why
one hundred and sixty thousand electors in the island of Great Britain,
should give law to four millions in the States of America, every
individual of whom is equal to every individual of them in virtue,
in understanding, and in bodily strength? Were this to be admitted,
instead of being a free people, as we have hitherto supposed, and mean
to continue ourselves, we should suddenly be found the slaves, not of
one, but of one hundred and sixty thousand tyrants; distinguished, too,
from all others, by this singular circumstance, that they are removed
from the reach of fear, the only restraining motive which may hold the
hand of a tyrant.

That, by 'an act to discontinue in such manner, and for such time as
are therein mentioned, the landing and discharging, lading or shipping
of goods, wares and merchandize, at the town and within the harbor of
Boston, in the province of Massachusetts bay, in North America,'[25]
which was past at the last session of the British Parliament, a large
and populous town, whose trade was their sole subsistence, was deprived
of that trade, and involved in utter ruin. Let us for a while, suppose
the question of right suspended, in order to examine this act on
principles of justice. An act of Parliament had been passed, imposing
duties on teas, to be paid in America, against which act the Americans
had protested, as inauthoritative. The East India Company, who till
that time, had never sent a pound of tea to America on their own
account, step forth on that occasion, the asserters of Parliamentary
right, and send hither many ship loads of that obnoxious commodity. The
masters of their several vessels, however, on their arrival in America,
wisely attended to admonition, and returned with their cargoes. In the
province of New-England alone, the remonstrances of the people were
disregarded, and a compliance, after being many days waited for, was
flatly refused. Whether in this, the master of the vessel was governed
by his obstinacy, or his instructions, let those who know, say. There
are extraordinary situations which require extraordinary interposition.
An exasperated people, who feel that they possess power, are not easily
restrained within limits strictly regular. A number of them assembled
in the town of Boston, threw the tea into the ocean, and dispersed
without doing any other act of violence. If in this they did wrong,
they were known, and were amenable to the laws of the land; against
which, it could not be objected, that they had ever, in any instance,
been obstructed or diverted from the regular course, in favor of
popular offenders. They should, therefore, not have been distrusted
on this occasion. But that ill-fated colony had formerly been bold
in their enmities against the House of Stuart, and were now devoted
to ruin, by that unseen hand which governs the momentous affairs of
this great empire. On the partial representations of a few worthless
ministerial dependants, whose constant office it has been to keep that
government embroiled, and who, by their treacheries, hope to obtain the
dignity of British knighthood, without calling for a party accused,
without asking a proof, without attempting a distinction between the
guilty and the innocent, the whole of that ancient and wealthy town, is
in a moment reduced from opulence to beggary. Men who had spent their
lives in extending the British commerce, who had invested, in that
place, the wealth their honest endeavors had merited, found themselves
and their families, thrown at once on the world, for subsistence by
its charities. Not the hundredth part of the inhabitants of that town,
had been concerned in the act complained of; many of them were in
Great Britain, and in other parts beyond sea; yet all were involved
in one indiscriminate ruin, by a new executive power, unheard of till
then, that of a British Parliament. A property of the value of many
millions of money, was sacrificed to revenge, not repay, the loss of a
few thousands. This is administering justice with a heavy hand indeed!
And when is this tempest to be arrested in its course? Two wharves are
to be opened again when his Majesty shall think proper: the residue,
which lined the extensive shores of the bay of Boston, are forever
interdicted the exercise of commerce. This little exception seems
to have been thrown in for no other purpose, than that of setting a
precedent for investing his Majesty with legislative powers. If the
pulse of his people shall beat calmly under this experiment, another
and another will be tried, till the measure of despotism be filled
up. It would be an insult on common sense, to pretend that this
exception was made, in order to restore its commerce to that great
town. The trade, which cannot be received at two wharves alone, must
of necessity be transferred to some other place; to which it will soon
be followed by that of the two wharves. Considered in this light, it
would be an insolent and cruel mockery at the annihilation of the town
of Boston. By the act for the suppression of riots and tumults in the
town of Boston,[26] passed also in the last session of Parliament, a
murder committed there, is, if the Governor pleases, to be tried in
the court of King's bench, in the island of Great Britain, by a jury
of Middlesex. The witnesses, too, on receipt of such a sum as the
Governor shall think it reasonable for them to expend, are to enter
into recognizance to appear at the trial. This is, in other words,
taxing them to the amount of their recognizance; and that amount may
be whatever a Governor pleases. For who does his Majesty think can
be prevailed on to cross the Atlantic for the sole purpose of bearing
evidence to a fact? His expenses are to be borne, indeed, as they shall
be estimated by a Governor; but who are to feed the wife and children
whom he leaves behind, and who have had no other subsistence but his
daily labor? Those epidemical disorders, too, so terrible in a foreign
climate, is the cure of them to be estimated among the articles of
expense, and their danger to be warded off by the Almighty power of a
Parliament? And the wretched criminal, if he happen to have offended
on the American side, stripped of his privilege of trial by peers of
his vicinage, removed from the place where alone full evidence could
be obtained, without money, without counsel, without friends, without
exculpatory proof, is tried before Judges predetermined to condemn.
The cowards who would suffer a countryman to be torn from the bowels of
their society, in order to be thus offered a sacrifice to Parliamentary
tyranny, would merit that everlasting infamy now fixed on the authors
of the act! A clause, for a similar purpose, had been introduced into
an act passed in the twelfth year of his Majesty's reign, entitled, 'an
act for the better securing and preserving his Majesty's Dock-yards,
Magazines, Ships, Ammunition and Stores;' against which, as meriting
the same censures, the several colonies have already protested.

That these are the acts of power, assumed by a body of men foreign to
our constitutions, and unacknowledged by our laws; against which we do,
on behalf of the inhabitants of British America, enter this, our solemn
and determined protest. And we do earnestly intreat his Majesty, as
yet the only mediatory power between the several States of the British
empire, to recommend to his Parliament of Great Britain, the total
revocation of these acts, which, however nugatory they may be, may yet
prove the cause of further discontents and jealousies among us.

That we next proceed to consider the conduct of his Majesty, as holding
the Executive powers of the laws of these States, and mark out his
deviations from the line of duty. By the Constitution of Great Britain,
as well as of the several American States, his Majesty possesses the
power of refusing to pass into a law, any bill which has already passed
the other two branches of the legislature. His Majesty, however, and
his ancestors, conscious of the impropriety of opposing their single
opinion to the united wisdom of two Houses of Parliament, while their
proceedings were unbiassed by interested principles, for several ages
past, have modestly declined the exercise of this power, in that part
of his empire called Great Britain. But, by change of circumstances,
other principles than those of justice simply, have obtained an
influence on their determinations. The addition of new States to
the British empire has produced an addition of new, and, sometimes,
opposite interests. It is now, therefore, the great office of his
Majesty to resume the exercise of his negative power, and to prevent
the passage of laws by any one legislature of the empire, which might
bear injuriously on the rights and interests of another. Yet this will
not excuse the wanton exercise of this power, which we have seen his
Majesty practice on the laws of the American legislature. For the most
trifling reasons, and, sometimes for no conceivable reason at all, his
Majesty has rejected laws of the most salutary tendency. The abolition
of domestic slavery is the great object of desire in those colonies,
where it was, unhappily, introduced in their infant state. But previous
to the enfranchisement of the slaves we have, it is necessary to
exclude all further importations from Africa. Yet our repeated attempts
to effect this, by prohibitions, and by imposing duties which might
amount to a prohibition, having been hitherto defeated by his Majesty's
negative: thus preferring the immediate advantages of a few British
corsairs, to the lasting interests of the American States, and to the
rights of human nature, deeply wounded by this infamous practice. Nay,
the single interposition of an interested individual against a law was
scarcely ever known to fail of success, though, in the opposite scale,
were placed the interests of a whole country. That this is so shameful
an abuse of a power, trusted with his Majesty for other purposes, as
if, not reformed, would call for some legal restrictions.

With equal inattention to the necessities of his people here has his
Majesty permitted our laws to lie neglected, in England, for years,
neither confirming them by his assent, nor annulling them by his
negative: so, that such of them as have no suspending clause, we hold
on the most precarious of all tenures, his Majesty's will; and such of
them as suspend themselves till his Majesty's assent be obtained, we
have feared might be called into existence at some future and distant
period, when time and change of circumstances shall have rendered
them destructive to his people here. And, to render this grievance
still more oppressive, his Majesty, by his instructions, has laid
his Governors under such restrictions, that they can pass no law, of
any moment, unless it have such suspending clause: so that, however
immediate may be the call for legislative interposition, the law cannot
be executed, till it has twice crossed the Atlantic, by which time the
evil may have spent its whole force.

But in what terms reconcilable to Majesty, and at the same time to
truth, shall we speak of a late instruction to his Majesty's Governor
of the colony of Virginia, by which he is forbidden to assent to any
law for the division of a county, unless the new county will consent to
have no representative in Assembly? That colony has as yet affixed no
boundary to the Westward. Their Western counties, therefore, are of an
indefinite extent. Some of them are actually seated many hundred miles
from their Eastern limits. Is it possible, then, that his Majesty can
have bestowed a single thought on the situation of those people, who in
order to obtain justice for injuries, however great or small, must, by
the laws of that colony, attend their county court at such a distance,
with all their witnesses, monthly, till their litigation be determined?
Or does his Majesty seriously wish, and publish it to the world, that
his subjects should give up the glorious right of representation, with
all the benefits derived from that, and submit themselves the absolute
slaves of his sovereign will? Or is it rather meant to confine the
legislative body to their present numbers, that they may be the cheaper
bargain, whenever they shall become worth a purchase?

One of the articles of impeachment against Tresilian, and the other
Judges of Westminster Hall, in the reign of Richard the Second, for
which they suffered death, as traitors to their country, was, that
they had advised the King, that he might dissolve his Parliament at
any time; and succeeding kings have adopted the opinion of these unjust
Judges. Since the establishment, however, of the British constitution,
at the glorious Revolution, on its free and ancient principles,
neither his Majesty, nor his ancestors, have exercised such a power
of dissolution in the island of Great Britain;[27] and when his
Majesty was petitioned, by the united voice of his people there, to
dissolve the present Parliament, who had become obnoxious to them, his
Ministers were heard to declare, in open Parliament, that his Majesty
possessed no such power by the constitution. But how different their
language, and his practice, here! To declare, as their duty required,
the known rights of their country, to oppose the usurpation of every
foreign judicature, to disregard the imperious mandates of a Minister
or Governor, have been the avowed causes of dissolving Houses of
Representatives in America. But if such powers be really vested in his
Majesty, can he suppose they are there placed to awe the members from
such purposes as these? When the representative body have lost the
confidence of their constituents, when they have notoriously made sale
of their most valuable rights, when they have assumed to themselves
powers which the people never put into their hands, then, indeed, their
continuing in office becomes dangerous to the State, and calls for an
exercise of the power of dissolution. Such being the cause for which
the representative body should, and should not, be dissolved, will
it not appear strange, to an unbiassed observer, that that of Great
Britain was not dissolved, while those of the colonies have repeatedly
incurred that sentence?

But your Majesty, or your Governors, have carried this power beyond
every limit known or provided for by the laws. After dissolving
one House of Representatives, they have refused to call another, so
that, for a great length of time, the legislature provided by the
laws, has been out of existence. From the nature of things, every
society must, at all times, possess within itself the sovereign
powers of legislation. The feelings of human nature revolt against
the supposition of a State so situated, as that it may not, in any
emergency, provide against dangers which, perhaps, threaten immediate
ruin. While those bodies are in existence to whom the people have
delegated the powers of legislation, they alone possess, and may
exercise, those powers. But when they are dissolved, by the lopping
off one or more of their branches, the power reverts to the people, who
may use it to unlimited extent, either assembling together in person,
sending deputies, or in any other way they may think proper. We forbear
to trace consequences further; the dangers are conspicuous with which
this practice is replete.

That we shall, at this time also, take notice of an error in the nature
of our land holdings, which crept in at a very early period of our
settlement. The introduction of the Feudal tenures into the kingdom
of England, though ancient, is well enough understood to set this
matter in a proper light. In the earlier ages of the Saxon settlement,
feudal holdings were certainly altogether unknown, and very few, if
any, had been introduced at the time of the Norman conquest. Our Saxon
ancestors held their lands, as they did their personal property, in
absolute dominion, disincumbered with any superior, answering nearly
to the nature of those possessions which the Feudalist term Allodial.
William the Norman, first introduced that system generally. The lands
which had belonged to those who fell in the battle of Hastings, and
in the subsequent insurrections of his reign, formed a considerable
proportion of the lands of the whole kingdom. These he granted out,
subject to feudal duties, as did he also those of a great number of
his new subjects, who, by persuasions or threats, were induced to
surrender them for that purpose. But still, much was left in the hands
of his Saxon subjects, held of no superior, and not subject to feudal
conditions. These, therefore, by express laws, enacted to render
uniform the system of military defence, were made liable to the same
military duties as if they had been feuds; and the Norman lawyers soon
found means to saddle them, also, with the other feudal burthens. But
still they had not been surrendered to the King, they were not derived
from his grant, and therefore they were not holden of him. A general
principle was introduced, that "all lands in England were held either
mediately or immediately of the Crown;" but this was borrowed from
those holdings which were truly feudal, and only applied to others
for the purposes of illustration. Feudal holdings were, therefore, but
exceptions out of the Saxon laws of possession, under which all lands
were held in absolute right. These, therefore, still form the basis
or groundwork of the Common law, to prevail wheresoever the exceptions
have not taken place. America was not conquered by William the Norman,
nor its lands surrendered to him or any of his successors. Possessions
there are, undoubtedly, of the Allodial nature. Our ancestors, however,
who migrated hither, were laborers, not lawyers. The fictitious
principle, that all lands belong originally to the King, they were
early persuaded to believe real, and accordingly took grants of their
own lands from the Crown. And while the Crown continued to grant for
small sums and on reasonable rents, there was no inducement to arrest
the error, and lay it open to public view. But his Majesty has lately
taken on him to advance the terms of purchase and of holding, to the
double of what they were; by which means, the acquisition of lands
being rendered difficult, the population of our country is likely to
be checked. It is time, therefore, for us to lay this matter before
his Majesty, and to declare, that he has no right to grant lands of
himself. From the nature and purpose of civil institutions, all the
lands within the limits, which any particular party has circumscribed
around itself, are assumed by that society, and subject to their
allotment; this may be done by themselves assembled collectively, or by
their legislature, to whom they may have delegated sovereign authority,
and, if they are allotted in neither of these ways, each individual of
the society, may appropriate to himself such lands as he finds vacant,
and occupancy will give him title.

That, in order to enforce the arbitrary measures before complained
of, his Majesty has, from time to time, sent among us large bodies
of armed forces, not made up of the people here, nor raised by the
authority of our laws. Did his Majesty possess such a right as this,
it might swallow up all our other rights, whenever he should think
proper. But his Majesty has no right to land a single armed man on our
shores; and those whom he sends here are liable to our laws, for the
suppression and punishment of riots, routs, and unlawful assemblies,
or are hostile bodies invading us in defiance of law. When, in the
course of the late war, it became expedient that a body of Hanoverian
troops should be brought over for the defence of Great Britain, his
Majesty's grandfather, our late sovereign, did not pretend to introduce
them under any authority he possessed. Such a measure would have given
just alarm to his subjects of Great Britain, whose liberties would not
be safe if armed men of another country, and of another spirit, might
be brought into the realm at any time, without the consent of their
legislature. He, therefore, applied to Parliament, who passed an act
for that purpose, limiting the number to be brought in, and the time
they were to continue. In like manner is his Majesty restrained in
every part of the empire. He possesses indeed the executive power of
the laws in every State; but they are the laws of the particular State,
which he is to administer within that State, and not those of any one
within the limits of another. Every State must judge for itself, the
number of armed men which they may safely trust among them, of whom
they are to consist, and under what restrictions they are to be laid.
To render these proceedings still more criminal against our laws,
instead of subjecting the military to the civil power, his majesty
has expressly made the civil subordinate to the military. But can his
Majesty thus put down all law under his feet? Can he erect a power
superior to that which erected himself? He has done it indeed by force;
but let him remember that force cannot give right.

That these are our grievances, which we have thus laid before his
Majesty, with that freedom of language and sentiment which becomes a
free people, claiming their rights as derived from the laws of nature,
and not as the gift of their Chief Magistrate. Let those flatter,
who fear: it is not an American art. To give praise where it is not
due might be well from the venal, but would ill beseem those who are
asserting the rights of human nature. They know, and will, therefore,
say, that Kings are the servants, not the proprietors of the people.
Open your breast, Sire, to liberal and expanded thought. Let not the
name of George the third, be a blot on the page of history. You are
surrounded by British counsellors, but remember that they are parties.
You have no ministers for American affairs, because you have none
taken from among us, nor amenable to the laws on which they are to
give you advice. It behoves you, therefore, to think and to act for
yourself and your people. The great principles of right and wrong
are legible to every reader; to pursue them, requires not the aid
of many counsellors. The whole art of government consists in the art
of being honest. Only aim to do your duty, and mankind will give you
credit where you fail. No longer persevere in sacrificing the rights
of one part of the empire to the inordinate desires of another; but
deal out to all, equal and impartial right. Let no act be passed by
any one legislature, which may infringe on the rights and liberties
of another. This is the important post in which fortune has placed
you, holding the balance of a great, if a well-poised empire. This,
Sire, is the advice of your great American council, on the observance
of which may perhaps depend your felicity and future fame, and the
preservation of that harmony which alone can continue, both to Great
Britain and America, the reciprocal advantages of their connection.
It is neither our wish nor our interest to separate from her. We are
willing, on our part, to sacrifice everything which reason can ask, to
the restoration of that tranquillity for which all must wish. On their
part, let them be ready to establish union on a generous plan. Let
them name their terms, but let them be just. Accept of every commercial
preference it is in our power to give, for such things as we can raise
for their use, or they make for ours. But let them not think to exclude
us from going to other markets to dispose of those commodities which
they cannot use, nor to supply those wants which they cannot supply.
Still less, let it be proposed, that our properties, within our own
territories, shall be taxed or regulated by any power on earth, but
our own. The God who gave us life, gave us liberty at the same time:
the hand of force may destroy, but cannot disjoin them. This, Sire, is
our last, our determined resolution. And that you will be pleased to
interpose, with that efficacy which your earnest endeavors may insure,
to procure redress of these our great grievances, to quiet the minds
of your subjects in British America against any apprehensions of future
encroachment, to establish fraternal love and harmony through the whole
empire, and that that may continue to the latest ages of time, is the
fervent prayer of all British America.


[NOTE D.]

                                                           August, 1774.

_Instructions for the Deputies appointed to meet in General Congress on
the part of this Colony._

The unhappy disputes between Great Britain and her American colonies,
which began about the third year of the reign of his present Majesty,
and since, continually increasing, have proceeded to lengths so
dangerous and alarming, as to excite just apprehensions in the minds
of his Majesty's faithful subjects of this colony, that they are in
danger of being deprived of their natural, ancient, constitutional,
and chartered rights, have compelled them to take the same into their
most serious consideration; and, being deprived of their usual and
accustomed mode of making known their grievances, have appointed
us their representatives to consider what is proper to be done in
this dangerous crisis of American affairs. It being our opinion that
the united wisdom of North America should be collected in a General
Congress of all the colonies, we have appointed the Honorable Peyton
Randolph, Richard Henry Lee, George Washington, Patrick Henry, Richard
Bland, Benjamin Harrison, and Edmund Pendleton, Esquires, deputies to
represent this colony in the said Congress, to be held at Philadelphia,
on the first Monday in September next.

And that they may be the better informed of our sentiments, touching
the conduct we wish them to observe on this important occasion, we
desire that they will express, in the first place, our faith and true
allegiance to his Majesty, King George the third, our lawful and
rightful sovereign; and that we are determined, with our lives and
fortunes, to support him in the legal exercise of all his just rights
and prerogatives. And, however misrepresented, we sincerely approve
of a constitutional connection with Great Britain, and wish, most
ardently, a return of that intercourse of affection and commercial
connection, that formerly united both countries, which can only be
effected by a removal of those causes of discontent, which have of late
unhappily divided us.

It cannot admit of a doubt, but the British subjects in America are
entitled to the same rights and privileges as their fellow subjects
possess in Britain; and therefore, that the power assumed by the
British Parliament to bind America by their statutes _in all cases_
whatsoever, is unconstitutional, and the source of these unhappy
differences.

The end of government would be defeated by the British Parliament
exercising a power over the lives, the property, and the liberty of
American subjects, who are not, and, from their local circumstances,
cannot be, there represented. Of this nature, we consider the several
acts of Parliament for raising a revenue in America, for extending the
jurisdiction of the courts of Admiralty, for seizing American subjects,
and transporting them to Britain to be tried for crimes committed in
America, and the several late oppressive acts respecting the town of
Boston, and Province of the Massachusetts Bay.

The original constitution of the American colonies possessing their
assemblies with the sole right of directing their internal polity, it
is absolutely destructive of the end of their institution, that their
legislatures should be suspended, or prevented, by hasty dissolutions,
from exercising their legislative powers.

Wanting the protection of Britain, we have long acquiesced in their
acts of navigation, restrictive of our commerce, which we consider as
an ample recompense for such protection; but as those acts derive their
efficacy from that foundation alone, we have reason to expect they will
be restrained, so as to produce the reasonable purposes of Britain, and
not injurious to us.

To obtain redress of these grievances, without which the people of
America can neither be safe, free, nor happy, they are willing to
undergo the great inconvenience that will be derived to them, from
stopping all imports whatever, from Great Britain, after the first day
of November next, and also to cease exporting any commodity whatsoever,
to the same place, after the tenth day of August, 1775. The earnest
desire we have to make as quick and full payment as possible of our
debts to Great Britain, and to avoid the heavy injury that would
arise to this country from an earlier adoption of the non-exportation
plan, after the people have already applied so much of their labor
to the perfecting of the present crop, by which means, they have been
prevented from pursuing other methods of clothing and supporting their
families, have rendered it necessary to restrain you in this article of
non-exportation; but it is our desire, that you cordially co-operate
with our sister colonies in General Congress, in such other just and
proper methods as they, or the majority, shall deem necessary for the
accomplishment of these valuable ends.

The proclamation issued by General Gage, in the government of the
Province of the Massachusetts Bay, declaring it treason for the
inhabitants of that province to assemble themselves to consider of
their grievances, and form associations for their common conduct on the
occasion, and requiring the civil magistrates and officers to apprehend
all such persons, to be tried for their supposed offences, is the
most alarming process that ever appeared in a British government; and
the said General Gage hath, thereby, assumed, and taken upon himself,
powers denied by the constitution to our legal sovereign; that he,
not having condescended to disclose by what authority he exercises
such extensive and unheard of powers, we are at a loss to determine,
whether he intends to justify himself as the representative of the
King, or as the Commander-in-Chief of his Majesty's forces in America.
If he considers himself as acting in the character of his Majesty's
representative, we would remind him that the statute 25th, Edward
the third has expressed and defined all treasonable offences, and
that the legislature of Great Britain had declared, that no offence
shall be construed to be treason, but such as is pointed out by that
statute, and that this was done to take out of the hands of tyrannical
Kings, and of weak and wicked Ministers, that deadly weapon, which
constructive treason had furnished them with, and which had drawn the
blood of the best and honestest men in the kingdom; and that the King
of Great Britain hath no right by his proclamation, to subject his
people to imprisonment, pains, and penalties.

That if the said General Gage conceives he is empowered to act in this
manner, as the Commander-in-Chief of his Majesty's forces in America,
this odious and illegal proclamation must be considered as a plain
and full declaration, that this despotic Viceroy will be bound by no
law, nor regard the constitutional rights of his Majesty's subjects,
whenever they interfere with the plan he has formed for oppressing
the good people of the Massachusetts Bay; and, therefore, that the
executing, or attempting to execute, such proclamations, will justify
resistance and reprisal.


[NOTE E.]

                                           Monticello, November 1. 1778.

     DEAR SIR,

I have got through the bill for "proportioning crimes and punishments
in cases heretofore capital," and now enclose it to you with a request
that you will be so good, as scrupulously to examine and correct
it, that it may be presented to our committee with as few defects
as possible. In its style, I have aimed at accuracy, brevity, and
simplicity, preserving, however, the very words of the established
law, wherever their meaning had been sanctioned by judicial decisions,
or rendered technical by usage. The same matter, if couched in the
modern statutory language, with all its tautologies, redundancies,
and circumlocutions, would have spread itself over many pages, and
been unintelligible to those whom it most concerns. Indeed, I wished
to exhibit a sample of reformation in the barbarous style into which
modern statutes have degenerated from their ancient simplicity. And I
must pray you to be as watchful over what I have not said, as what is
said; for the omissions of this bill have all their positive meaning.
I have thought it better to drop, in silence, the laws we mean to
discontinue, and let them be swept away by the general negative words
of this, than to detail them in clauses of express repeal. By the side
of the text I have written the notes I made, as I went along, for the
benefit of my own memory. They may serve to draw your attention to
questions, to which the expressions or the omissions of the text may
give rise. The extracts from the Anglo-Saxon laws, the sources of the
Common law, I wrote in their original, for my own satisfaction;[28] but
I have added Latin, or liberal English translations. From the time of
Canute to that of the Magna Charta, you know, the text of our statutes
is preserved to us in Latin only, and some old French.

I have strictly observed the scale of punishments settled by the
Committee, without being entirely satisfied with it. The _Lex
talionis_, although a restitution of the Common law, to the simplicity
of which we have generally found it so advantageous to return, will
be revolting to the humanized feelings of modern times. An eye for an
eye, and a hand for a hand, will exhibit spectacles in execution whose
moral effect would be questionable; and even the _membrum pro membro_
of Bracton, or the punishment of the offending member, although long
authorized by our law, for the same offence in a slave has, you know,
been not long since repealed, in conformity with public sentiment. This
needs reconsideration.

I have heard little of the proceedings of the Assembly, and do not
expect to be with you till about the close of the month. In the
meantime, present me respectfully to Mrs. Wythe, and accept assurances
of the affectionate esteem and respect of, dear Sir,

                        Your friend and servant.

    George Wythe, Esq.


_A Bill for proportioning Crimes and Punishments, in cases heretofore
Capital._

Whereas, it frequently happens that wicked and dissolute men, resigning
themselves to the dominion of inordinate passions, commit violations on
the lives, liberties, and property of others, and, the secure enjoyment
of these having principally induced men to enter into society,
government would be defective in its principal purpose, were it not to
restrain such criminal acts, by inflicting due punishments on those who
perpetrate them; but it appears, at the same time, equally deducible
from the purposes of society, that a member thereof, committing an
inferior injury, does not wholly forfeit the protection of his fellow
citizens, but, after suffering a punishment in proportion to his
offence, is entitled to their protection from all greater pain, so that
it becomes a duty in the legislature to arrange, in a proper scale,
the crimes which it may be necessary for them to repress, and to adjust
thereto a corresponding gradation of punishments.

And whereas, the reformation of offenders, though an object worthy
the attention of the laws, is not effected at all by capital
punishments, which exterminate instead of reforming, and should be
the last melancholy resource against those whose existence is become
inconsistent with the safety of their fellow citizens, which also
weaken the State, by cutting off so many who, if reformed, might
be restored sound members to society, who, even under a course of
correction, might be rendered useful in various labors for the public,
and would be living and long-continued spectacles to deter others from
committing the like offences.

And forasmuch as the experience of all ages and countries hath shown,
that cruel and sanguinary laws defeat their own purpose, by engaging
the benevolence of mankind to withhold prosecutions, to smother
testimony, or to listen to it with bias, when, if the punishment were
only proportioned to the injury, men would feel it their inclination,
as well as their duty, to see the laws observed.

For rendering crimes and punishments, therefore, more proportionate to
each other:

Be it enacted by the General Assembly, that no crime shall be
henceforth punished by the deprivation of life or limb,[29] except
those hereinafter ordained to be so punished.

[30]If a man do levy war[31] against the Commonwealth [_in the
same_], or be adherent to the enemies of the Commonwealth [_within
the same_],[32] giving to them aid or comfort in the Commonwealth, or
elsewhere, and thereof be convicted of open deed, by the evidence of
two sufficient witnesses, or his own voluntary confession, the said
cases, and no[33] others, shall be adjudged treasons which extend to
the Commonwealth, and the person so convicted shall suffer death, by
hanging,[34] and shall forfeit his lands and goods to the Commonwealth.

If any person commit petty treason, or a husband murder his wife, a
parent[35] his child, or a child his parent, he shall suffer death by
hanging, and his body be delivered to Anatomists to be dissected.

Whosoever committeth murder by poisoning shall suffer death by poison.

Whosoever committeth murder by way of duel shall suffer death by
hanging; and if he were the challenger, his body, after death, shall be
gibbetted.[36] He who removeth it from the gibbet shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor; and the officer shall see that it be replaced.

Whosoever shall commit murder in any other way shall suffer death by
hanging.

And in all cases of Petty treason and murder, one half of the lands
and goods of the offender, shall be forfeited to the next of kin
to the person killed, and the other half descend and go to his own
representatives. Save only, where one shall slay the challenger in
a duel,[37] in which case, no part of his lands or goods shall be
forfeited to the kindred of the party slain, but, instead thereof, a
moiety shall go to the Commonwealth.

The same evidence[38] shall suffice, and order and course[39] of
trial be observed in cases of Petty treason, as in those of other[40]
murders.

Whosoever shall be guilty of manslaughter,[41] shall, for the first
offence, be condemned to hard[42] labor for seven years in the public
works, shall forfeit one half of his lands and goods to the next of kin
to the person slain; the other half to be sequestered during such term,
in the hands and to the use of the Commonwealth, allowing a reasonable
part of the profits for the support of his family. The second offence
shall be deemed murder.

And where persons, meaning to commit a trespass[43] only, or larceny,
or other unlawful deed, and doing an act from which involuntary
homicide hath ensued, have heretofore been adjudged guilty of
manslaughter, or of murder, by transferring such their unlawful
intention to an act, much more penal than they could have in probable
contemplation; no such case shall hereafter be deemed manslaughter,
unless manslaughter was intended, nor murder, unless murder was
intended.

In other cases of homicide, the law will not add to the miseries of the
party, by punishments and forfeitures.[44]

Whenever sentence of death shall have been pronounced against any
person for treason or murder, execution shall be done on the next
day but one after such sentence, unless it be Sunday, and then on the
Monday following.[45]

Whosoever shall be guilty of Rape,[46] Polygamy,[47] or Sodomy[48]
with man or woman, shall be punished, if a man, by castration,[49] if a
woman, by cutting through the cartilage of her nose a hole of one half
inch in diameter at the least.

But no one shall be punished for Polygamy, who shall have married after
probable information of the death of his or her husband or wife, or
after his or her husband or wife, hath absented him or herself, so that
no notice of his or her being alive hath reached such person for seven
years together, or hath suffered the punishments before prescribed for
rape, polygamy, or sodomy.

Whosoever on purpose, and of malice forethought, shall maim[50]
another, or shall disfigure him, by cutting out or disabling the
tongue, slitting or cutting off a nose, lip, or ear, branding, or
otherwise, shall be maimed, or disfigured in like[51] sort: or if that
cannot be, for want of the same part, then as nearly as may be, in some
other part of at least equal value and estimation, in the opinion of
a jury, and moreover, shall forfeit one half of his lands and goods to
the sufferer.

Whosoever shall counterfeit[52] any coin, current by law within this
Commonwealth, or any paper bills issued in the nature of money, or
of certificates of loan on the credit of this Commonwealth, or of all
or any of the United States of America, or any Inspectors' notes for
tobacco, or shall pass any such counterfeit coin, paper, bills, or
notes, knowing them to be counterfeit; or, for the sake of lucre, shall
diminish,[53] case, or wash any such coin, shall be condemned to hard
labor six years in the public works, and shall forfeit all his lands
and goods to the Commonwealth.

[54]Whosoever committeth Arson, shall be condemned to hard labor
five years in the public works, and shall make good the loss of the
sufferers threefold.[55]

If any person shall, within this Commonwealth, or being a citizen
thereof, shall without the same, wilfully destroy,[56] or run[57] away
with any sea-vessel, or goods laden on board thereof, or plunder or
pilfer any wreck, he shall be condemned to hard labor five years in the
public works, and shall make good the loss of the sufferers threefold.

Whosoever committeth Robbery,[58] shall be condemned to hard labor
four years in the public works, and shall make double reparation to the
persons injured.

Whatsoever act, if committed on any Mansion house, would be deemed
Burglary,[59] shall be Burglary, if committed on any other house; and
he, who is guilty of Burglary, shall be condemned to hard labor four
years in the public works, and shall make double reparation to the
persons injured.

Whatsoever act, if committed in the night time, shall constitute
the crime of Burglary, shall, if committed in the day, be deemed
House-breaking;[60] and whosoever is guilty thereof, shall be
condemned to hard labor three years in the public works, and shall make
reparation to the persons injured.

Whosoever shall be guilty of Horse-stealing,[61] shall be condemned to
hard labor three years in the public works, and shall make reparation
to the person injured.

Grand Larceny[62] shall be where the goods stolen are of the value of
five dollars; and whosoever shall be guilty thereof, shall be forthwith
put in the pillory for one half hour, shall be condemned to hard
labor[63] two years in the public works, and shall make reparation to
the person injured.

Petty Larceny shall be, where the goods stolen are of less value than
five dollars; and whosoever shall be guilty thereof, shall be forthwith
put in the pillory for a quarter of an hour, shall be condemned to hard
labor one year in the public works, and shall make reparation to the
person injured.

Robbery[64] or larceny of bonds, bills obligatory, bills of exchange,
or promissory notes for the payment of money or tobacco, lottery
tickets, paper bills issued in the nature of money, or of certificates
of loan on the credit of this Commonwealth, or of all or any of the
United States of America, or Inspectors' notes for tobacco, shall
be punished in the same manner as robbery or larceny of the money or
tobacco due on, or represented by such papers.

Buyers[65] and receivers of goods taken by way of robbery or larceny,
knowing them to have been so taken, shall be deemed accessaries to such
robbery or larceny after the fact.

Prison-breakers[66], also, shall be deemed accessaries after the fact,
to traitors or felons whom they enlarge from prison.[67]

All attempts to delude the people, or to abuse their understanding by
exercise of the pretended arts of witchcraft, conjuration, enchantment,
or sorcery, or by pretended prophecies, shall be punished by ducking
and whipping, at the discretion of a jury, not exceeding fifteen
stripes.[68]

If the principal offenders be fled,[69] or secreted from justice,
in any case not touching life or member, the accessaries may,
notwithstanding, be prosecuted as if their principal were
convicted.[70]

If any offender stand mute of obstinacy,[71] or challenge peremptorily
more of the jurors than by law he may, being first warned of the
consequence thereof, the court shall proceed as if he had confessed the
charge.[72]

Pardon and Privilege of clergy, shall henceforth be abolished, that
none may be induced to injure through hope of impunity. But if the
verdict be against the defendant, and the court before whom the
offence is heard and determined, shall doubt that it may be untrue for
defect of testimony, or other cause, they may direct a new trial to be
had.[73]

No attainder shall work corruption of blood in any case.

In all cases of forfeiture, the widow's dower shall be saved to her,
during her title thereto; after which it shall be disposed of as if no
such saving had been.

The aid of Counsel,[74] and examination of their witnesses on oath,
shall be allowed to defendants in criminal prosecutions.

Slaves guilty of any offence[75] punishable in others by labor in the
public works, shall be transported to such parts in the West Indies,
South America, or Africa, as the Governor shall direct, there to be
continued in slavery.


[NOTE F.]

_Notes on the Establishment of a Money Unit, and of a Coinage for the
United States._

In fixing the Unit of Money, these circumstances are of principal
importance.

I. That it be of _convenient size_ to be applied as a measure to the
common money transactions of life.

II. That its parts and multiples be in _an easy proportion_ to each
other, so as to facilitate the money arithmetic.

III. That the Unit and its parts, or divisions, be _so nearly of the
value of some of the known coins_, as that they may be of easy adoption
for the people.

The Spanish Dollar seems to fulfil all these conditions.

I. Taking into our view all money transactions, great and small,
I question if a common measure of more _convenient size_ than the
Dollar could be proposed. The value of 100, 1000, 10,000 dollars is
well estimated by the mind; so is that of the tenth or the hundredth
of a dollar. Few transactions are above or below these limits. The
expediency of attending to the size of the money Unit will be evident,
to any one who will consider how inconvenient it would be to a
manufacturer or merchant, if, instead of the yard for measuring cloth,
either the inch or the mile had been made the Unit of Measure.

II. The most _easy ratio_ of multiplication and division, is that by
ten. Every one knows the facility of Decimal Arithmetic. Every one
remembers, that, when learning Money-Arithmetic, he used to be puzzled
with adding the farthings, taking out the fours and carrying them on;
adding the pence, taking out the twelves and carrying them on; adding
the shillings, taking out the twenties and carrying them on; but when
he came to the pounds, where he had only tens to carry forward, it was
easy and free from error. The bulk of mankind are school-boys through
life. These little perplexities are always great to them. And even
mathematical heads feel the relief of an easier, substituted for a
more difficult process. Foreigners, too, who trade and travel among
us, will find a great facility in understanding our coins and accounts
from this ratio of subdivision. Those who have had occasion to convert
the livres, sols, and deniers of the French; the gilders, stivers, and
frenings of the Dutch; the pounds, shillings, pence, and farthings of
these several States, into each other, can judge how much they would
have been aided, had their several subdivisions been in a decimal
ratio. Certainly, in all cases, where we are free to choose between
easy and difficult modes of operation, it is most rational to choose
the easy. The Financier, therefore, in his report, well proposes that
our Coins should be in decimal proportions to one another. If we adopt
the Dollar for our Unit, we should strike four coins, one of gold, two
of silver, and one of copper, viz.:

     1. A golden piece, equal in value to ten dollars:

     2. The Unit or Dollar itself, of silver:

     3. The tenth of a Dollar, of silver also:

     4. The hundredth of a Dollar, of copper.

Compare the arithmetical operations, on the same sum of money expressed
in this form, and expressed in the pound sterling and its division.

                    s. d. qrs.  Dollars.
     Addition.     8 13 11 1-2  = 38.65
                   4 12  8 3-4  = 20.61
                  ------------    -----
                  13  6  8 1-4  = 59.26

                    s. d. qrs.  Dollars.
     Subtraction.  8 13 11 1-2  = 38.65
                   4 12  8 3-4  = 20.61
                  ------------    -----
                   4  1  2 3-4  = 18.04

             Multiplication by 8.

                    s. d. qrs.  Dollars.
                   8 13 11 1-2  = 38.65
                  20                  8
                ----             ------
                 173            $309.20
                  12
                ----
                2087
                   4
                ----
                8350
                   8
              ------
            4)66,800
           12)16 700
           20)  1391  8
                 69 11  8

              Division by 8.

                    s. d. qrs.  Dollars.
                   8 13 11 1-2  = 8)38.65
                  20               4.83
                ----
                 173
                  12
                ----
                2087
                   4
                ----
              8)8350
              4)1043
             12) 260 3-4
             20) 21 8 3-4
                 1 1 8 3-4

A bare inspection of the above operations will evince the labor which
is occasioned by subdividing the Unit into 20ths, 240ths, and 960ths,
as the English do, and as we have done; and the ease of subdivision
in a decimal ratio. The same difference arises in making payment.
An Englishman, to pay 8, 13_s._ 11_d._ 1-2 qrs., must find, by
calculation, what combination of the coins of his country will pay
this sum; but an American, having the same sum to pay, thus expressed
$38.65, will know, by inspection only, that three golden pieces, eight
units or dollars, six tenths, and five coppers, pay it precisely.

III. The third condition required is, that the Unit, its multiples, and
subdivisions, coincide in value with some of the known coins so nearly,
that the people may, by a quick reference in the mind, estimate their
value. If this be not attended to, they will be very long in adopting
the innovation, if ever they adopt it. Let us examine, in this point of
view, each of the four coins proposed.

1. The golden piece will be 1-5 more than a half joe, and 1-15 more
than a double guinea. It will be readily estimated, then, by reference
to either of them; but more readily and accurately as equal to ten
dollars.

2. The Unit, or Dollar, is a known coin, and the most familiar of all,
to the minds of the people. It is already adopted from South to North;
has identified our currency, and therefore happily offers itself as a
Unit already introduced. Our public debt, our requisitions, and their
appointments, have given it actual and long possession of the place
of Unit. The course of our commerce, too, will bring us more of this
than of any other foreign coin, and therefore renders it more worthy
of attention. I know of no Unit which can be proposed in competition
with the Dollar, but the Pound. But what is the Pound? 1547 grains
of fine silver in Georgia; 1289 grains in Virginia, Connecticut,
Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire; 1031 1-4 grains in
Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey; 966 3-4 grains in
North Carolina and New York. Which of these shall we adopt? To which
State give that pre-eminence of which all are so jealous? And on which
impose the difficulties of a new estimate of their corn, their cattle,
and other commodities? Or shall we hang the pound sterling, as a common
badge, about all their necks? This contains 1718 3-4 grains of pure
silver. It is difficult to familiarize a new coin to the people; it
is more difficult to familiarize them to a new coin with an old name.
Happily, the dollar is familiar to them all, and is already as much
referred to for a measure of value, as their respective provincial
pounds.

3. The tenth will be precisely the Spanish bit, or half pistereen. This
is a coin perfectly familiar to us all. When we shall make a new coin,
then, equal in value to this, it will be of ready estimate with the
people.

4. The hundredth, or copper, will differ little from the copper of
the four Eastern States, which is 1-108 of a dollar; still less from
the penny of New York and North Carolina, which is 1-96 of a dollar;
and somewhat more from the penny or copper of Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, and Maryland, which is 1-90 of a dollar.

It will be about the medium between the old and the new coppers of
these States, and will therefore soon be substituted for them both.
In Virginia, coppers have never been in use. It will be as easy,
therefore, to introduce them there of one value as of another. The
copper coin proposed will be nearly equal to three-fourths of their
penny, which is the same with the penny lawful of the Eastern States.

A great deal of small change is useful in a State, and tends to reduce
the price of small articles. Perhaps it would not be amiss to coin
three more pieces of silver, one of the value of five-tenths, or half
a dollar, one of the value of two-tenths, which would be equal to the
Spanish pistereen, and one of the value of five coppers, which would be
equal to the Spanish half-bit. We should then have five silver coins,
viz.:

  1. The Unit or Dollar:

  2. The half dollar or five-tenths:

  3. The double tenth, equal to 2, or one-fifth of a dollar, or to
    the pistereen:

  4. The tenth, equal to a Spanish bit:

  5. The five copper piece, equal to .5, or one-twentieth of a
    dollar, or the half-bit.

The plan reported by the Financier is worthy of his sound judgment. It
admits, however, of objection, in the size of the Unit. He proposes
that this shall be the 1440th part of a dollar: so that it will
require 1440 of his units to make the one before proposed. He was led
to adopt this by a mathematical attention to our old currencies, all
of which this Unit will measure without leaving a fraction. But as
our object is to get rid of those currencies, the advantage derived
from this coincidence will soon be past, whereas the inconveniences of
this Unit will forever remain, if they do not altogether prevent its
introduction. It is defective in two of the three requisites of a Money
Unit. 1. It is inconvenient in its application to the ordinary money
transactions. 10.000 dollars will require eight figures to express
them, to wit 14,400,000 units. A horse or bullock of eighty dollars
value, will require a notation of six figures, to wit, 115,200 units.
As a money of account, this will be laborious, even when facilitated
by the aid of decimal arithmetic: as a common measure of the value of
property, it will be too minute to be comprehended by the people. The
French are subjected to very laborious calculations, the Livre being
their ordinary money of account, and this but between l-5th and l-6th
of a dollar; but what will be our labors, should our money of account
be 1-1440th of a dollar? 2. It is neither equal, nor near to any of the
known coins in value.

If we determine that a Dollar shall be our Unit, we must then say with
precision what a Dollar is. This coin, struck at different times, of
different weights and fineness, is of different values. Sir Isaac
Newton's assay and representation to the Lords of the Treasury, in
1717, of those which he examined, make their values as follows:

                                    dwts. grs.

     The Seville piece of eight     17--12 containing 387 grains of
                                                      pure silver
     The Mexico piece of eight      17--10 5-9 "      385 1-2
     The Pillar piece of eight      17--9      "      385 3-4
     The new Seville piece of eight 14--       "      308 7-10

The Financier states the old Dollar as containing 376 grains of fine
silver, and the new 365 grains. If the Dollars circulating among us be
of every date equally, we should examine the quantity of pure metal in
each, and from them form an average for our Unit. This is a work proper
to be committed to mathematicians as well as merchants, and which
should be decided on actual and accurate experiment.

The quantum of alloy is also to be decided. Some is necessary, to
prevent the coin from wearing too fast; too much, fills our pockets
with copper, instead of silver. The silver coin assayed by Sir Isaac
Newton, varied from 1 1-2 to 76 pennyweights alloy, in the pound troy
of mixed metal. The British standard has 18 dwt.; the Spanish coins
assayed by Sir Isaac Newton, have from 18 to 19 1-2 dwt.; the new
French crown has in fact 19 1-2, though by edict, it should have 20
dwt., that is 1-12.

The taste of our countrymen will require, that their furniture plate
should be as good as the British standard. Taste cannot be controlled
by law. Let it then give the law, in a point which is indifferent to a
certain degree. Let the Legislature fix the alloy of furniture plate
at 18 dwt., the British standard, and Congress that of their coin at
one ounce in the pound, the French standard. This proportion has been
found convenient for the alloy of gold coin, and it will simplify the
system of our mint to alloy both metals in the same degree. The coin,
too, being the least pure, will be the less easily melted into plate.
These reasons are light, indeed, and, of course, will only weigh, if no
heavier ones can be opposed to them.

The proportion between the values of gold and silver is a mercantile
problem altogether. It would be inaccurate to fix it by the popular
exchanges of a half Joe for eight dollars, a Louis for four French
crowns, or five Louis for twenty-three dollars. The first of these,
would be to adopt the Spanish proportion between gold and silver;
the second, the French; the third, a mere popular barter, wherein
convenience is consulted more than accuracy. The legal proportion
in Spain is 16 for 1; in England, 15 1-2 for 1; in France, 15 for
1. The Spaniards and English are found, in experience, to retain an
over-proportion of gold coins, and to lose their silver. The French
have a greater proportion of silver. The difference at market has
been on the decrease. The Financier states it at present, as at 14 1-2
for one. Just principles will lead us to disregard legal proportions
altogether; to enquire into the market price of gold, in the several
countries with which we shall principally be connected in commerce, and
to take an average from them. Perhaps we might, with safety, lean to a
proportion somewhat above par for gold, considering our neighborhood,
and commerce with the sources of the coins, and the tendency which
the high price of gold in Spain has, to draw thither all that of their
mines, leaving silver principally for our and other markets. It is not
impossible that 15 for 1, may be found an eligible proportion. I state
it, however, as a conjecture only.

As to the alloy for gold coin, the British is an ounce in the pound;
the French, Spanish, and Portuguese differ from that, only from a
quarter of a grain, to a grain and a half. I should, therefore, prefer
the British, merely because its fraction stands in a more simple form,
and facilitates the calculations into which it enters.

Should the Unit be fixed at 365 grains of pure silver, gold at 15 for
1, and the alloy of both be one-twelfth, the weight of the coins will
be as follows:

                                       Grains.      Grains.  dwt. Grains.
                                    of pure metal  of alloy   will weigh
     The Golden piece containing       242 1-3       22.12    11 -  1.45
     The Unit or Dollar                365           33.18    16 - 14.18
     The half dollar, or five tenths,  182 1-2       16.59     8 -  7.09
     The fifth, or Pistereen,           73            6.63     3 -  7.63
     The tenth, or Bit.                 36 1-2        3.318    1 - 15.818
     The twentieth, or half Bit,        18 1-4        1.659        19.9

The quantity of fine silver which shall constitute the Unit, being
settled, and the proportion of the value of gold to that of silver; a
table should be formed from the assay before suggested, classing the
several foreign coins according to their fineness, declaring the worth
of a pennyweight or grain in each class, and that they shall be lawful
tenders at those rates, if not clipped or otherwise diminished; and,
where diminished, offering their value for them at the mint, deducting
the expense of re-coinage. Here the Legislatures should co-operate
with Congress, in providing that no money be received or paid at their
treasuries, or by any of their officers, or any bank, but on actual
weight; in making it criminal, in a high degree, to diminish their
own coins, and, in some smaller degree, to offer them in payment when
diminished.

That this subject may be properly prepared, and in readiness for
Congress to take up at their meeting in November, something must now
be done. The present session drawing to a close, they probably would
not choose to enter far into this undertaking themselves. The Committee
of the States, however, during the recess, will have time to digest
it thoroughly, if Congress will fix some general principles for their
government. Suppose they be instructed,

To appoint proper persons to assay and examine, with the utmost
accuracy practicable, the Spanish milled dollars of different dates, in
circulation with us.

To assay and examine, in like manner, the fineness of all the other
coins which may be found in circulation within these States.

To report to the Committee the result of these assays, by them to be
laid before Congress.

To appoint, also, proper persons to enquire what are the proportions
between the values of fine gold, and fine silver, at the markets of
the several countries with which we are, or probably may be, connected
in commerce; and what would be a proper proportion here, having
regard to the average of their values at those markets, and to other
circumstances, and to report the same to the Committee, by them to be
laid before Congress.

To prepare an Ordinance for establishing the Unit of Money within these
States; for subdividing it; and for striking coins of gold, silver, and
copper, on the following principles:

That the Money Unit of these States shall be equal in value to a
Spanish milled dollar containing so much fine silver as the assay,
before directed, shall show to be contained, on an average, in dollars
of the several dates in circulation with us.

That this Unit shall be divided into tenths and hundredths; that there
shall be a coin of silver of the value of a Unit; one other of the same
metal, of the value of one-tenth of a Unit; one other of copper, of the
value of the hundredth of a Unit.

That there shall be a coin of gold of the value of ten Units, according
to the report before directed, and the judgment of the Committee
thereon.

That the alloy of the said coins of gold and silver, shall be equal in
weight to one-eleventh part of the fine metal.

That there be proper devices for these coins.

That measures be proposed for preventing their diminution, and also
their currency, and that of any others, when diminished.

That the several foreign coins be described and classed in the said
Ordinance, the fineness of each class stated, and its value by weight
estimated in Units and decimal parts of Units.

And that the said draught of an Ordinance be reported to Congress at
their next meeting, for their consideration and determination.


_Supplementary Explanations._

The preceding notes having been submitted to the consideration of the
Financier, he favored me with his opinion and observations on them,
which render necessary the following supplementary explanations.

I observed, in the preceding notes, that the true proportion of value
between gold and silver was a mercantile problem altogether, and that,
perhaps, fifteen for one, might be found an eligible proportion. The
Financier is so good as to inform me, that this would be higher than
the market would justify. Confident of his better information on this
subject, I recede from that idea.[76]

He also informs me, that the several coins, in circulation among us,
have been already assayed with accuracy, and the result published in
a work on that subject. The assay of Sir Isaac Newton had superseded,
in my mind, the necessity of this operation as to the older coins,
which were the subject of his examination. This later work, with equal
reason, may be considered as saving the same trouble as to the latter
coins.

So far, then, I accede to the opinions of the Financier. On the other
hand, he seems to concur with me, in thinking his smallest fractional
division too minute for a Unit, and, therefore, proposes to transfer
that denomination to his largest silver coin, containing 1000 of the
units first proposed, and worth about 4s. 2d. lawful, or 25-36 of a
Dollar. The only question then remaining between us is, whether the
Dollar, or this coin, be best for the Unit. We both agree that _the
ease of adoption with the people_, is the thing to be aimed at.

1. As to the Dollar, events have overtaken and superseded the question.
It is no longer a doubt whether the people can adopt it with ease;
they have adopted it, and will have to be turned out of that, into
another tract of calculation, if another Unit be assumed. They have
now two Units, which they use with equal facility, viz., the Pound of
their respective State, and the Dollar. The first of these is peculiar
to each State: the second, happily, common to all. In each State, the
people have an easy rule of converting the pound of their State into
dollars, or dollars into pounds; and this is enough for them, without
knowing how this may be done in every State of the Union. Such of them
as live near enough the borders of their State to have dealings with
their neighbors, learn also the rule of their neighbors: thus, in
Virginia and the Eastern States, where the dollar is 6s. or 3-10 of
a pound, to turn pounds into dollars, they multiply by 10 and divide
by 3. To turn dollars into pounds, they multiply by 3, and divide by
10. Those in Virginia who live near to Carolina, where the dollar is
8s. or 4-10 of a pound, learn the operation of that State, which is a
multiplication by 4, and division by 10, _et e converso_. Those who
live near Maryland, where the dollar is 7s. 6d. or 3-8 of a pound,
multiply by 3, and divide by 8, _et e converso_. All these operations
are easy, and have been found, by experience, not too much for the
arithmetic of the people, when they have occasion to convert their old
Unit into dollars, or the reverse.

2. As to the Unit of the Financier; in the States where the dollars is
3-10 of a pound, this Unit will be 5-24. Its conversion into the pound
then, will be by a multiplication of 5, and a division by 24. In the
States where the dollar is 3-8 of a pound, this Unit will be 25-96 of a
pound, and the operation must be to multiply by 25, and divide by 96,
_et e converso_. Where the dollar is 4-10 of a pound, this Unit will
be 5-18. The simplicity of the fraction, and of course the facility
of conversion and reconversion, is therefore against this Unit, and in
favor of the dollar, in every instance. The only advantage it has over
the dollar, is, that it will in every case express our farthing without
a remainder; whereas, though the dollar and its decimals will do this
in many cases, it will not in all. But, even in these, by extending
your notation one figure further, to wit, to thousands, you approximate
to perfect accuracy within less than the two-thousandth part of a
dollar; an atom in money which every one would neglect. Against this
single inconvenience, the other advantages of the dollar are more than
sufficient to preponderate. This Unit will present to the people a new
coin, and whether they endeavor to estimate its value by comparing it
with a Pound, or with a Dollar, the Units they now possess, they will
find the fraction very compound, and of course less accommodated to
their comprehension and habits than the dollar. Indeed the probability
is, that they could never be led to compute in it generally.

The Financier supposes that the 1-100 part of a dollar is not
sufficiently small, where the poor are purchasers or vendors. If it is
not, make a smaller coin. But I suspect that it is small enough. Let
us examine facts, in countries where we are acquainted with them. In
Virginia, where our towns are few, small, and of course their demand
for necessaries very limited, we have never yet been able to introduce
a copper coin at all. The smallest coin which anybody will receive
there, is the half-bit, or 1-20 of a dollar. In those States where
the towns are larger and more populous, a more habitual barter of
small wants, has called for a copper coin of 1-90, 1-96, or 1-108 of
a dollar. In England, where the towns are many and populous, and where
ages of experience have matured the conveniences of intercourse, they
have found that some wants may be supplied for a farthing, or 1-208 of
a dollar, and they have accommodated a coin to this want. This business
is evidently progressive. In Virginia, we are far behind. In some
other States, they are further advanced, to wit, to the appreciation
of 1-90, 1-96, 1-108 of a dollar. To this most advanced state, then, I
accommodated my smallest coin in the decimal arrangement, as _a money
of payment_, corresponding with the _money of account_. I have no doubt
the time will come when a smaller coin will be called for. When that
comes, let it be made. It will probably be the half of the copper I
suppose, that is to say, 5-1000 or .005 of a dollar, this being very
nearly the farthing of England. But it will be time enough to make it,
when the people shall be ready to receive it.

My proposition then, is, that our notation of money shall be decimal,
descending _ad libitum_ of the person noting; that the Unit of this
notation shall be a Dollar; that coins shall be accommodated to it
from ten dollars to the hundredth of a dollar and that, to set this on
foot, the resolutions be adopted which were proposed in the notes, only
substituting _an enquiry into the fineness of the coins_ in lieu of _an
assay of them_.




[NOTE G.]

I have sometimes asked myself, whether my country is the better for
my having lived at all? I do not know that it is. I have been the
instrument of doing the following things; but they would have been done
by others; some of them, perhaps, a little better.

The Rivanna had never been used for navigation; scarcely an empty
canoe had ever passed down it. Soon after I came of age, I examined its
obstructions, set on foot a subscription for removing them, got an Act
of Assembly passed, and the thing effected, so as to be used completely
and fully for carrying down all our produce.

The Declaration of Independence.

I proposed the demolition of the church establishment, and the freedom
of religion. It could only be done by degrees; to wit, the Act of 1776,
c. 2. exempted dissenters from contributions to the Church, and left
the Church clergy to be supported by voluntary contributions of their
own sect; was continued from year to year, and made perpetual 1779, c.
36. I prepared the act for religious freedom in 1777, as part of the
revisal, which was not reported to the Assembly till 1779, and that
particular law not passed till 1785, and then by the efforts of Mr.
Madison.

The act putting an end to entails.

The act prohibiting the importation of slaves.

The act concerning citizens, and establishing the natural right of man
to expatriate himself, at will.

The act changing the course of descents, and giving the inheritance to
all the children, &c., equally, I drew as part of the revisal.

The act for apportioning crimes and punishments, part of the same work,
I drew. When proposed to the legislature, by Mr. Madison, in 1785, it
failed by a single vote. G. K. Taylor afterwards, in 1796, proposed
the same subject; avoiding the adoption of any part of the diction of
mine, the text of which had been studiously drawn in the technical
terms of the law, so as to give no occasion for new questions by
new expressions. When I drew mine, public labor was thought the best
punishment to be substituted for death. But, while I was in France,
I heard of a society in England, who had successfully introduced
solitary confinement, and saw the drawing of a prison at Lyons, in
France, formed on the idea of solitary confinement. And, being applied
to by the Governor of Virginia for the plan of a Capitol and Prison, I
sent him the Lyons plan, accompanying it with a drawing on a smaller
scale, better adapted to our use. This was in June, 1786. Mr. Taylor
very judiciously adopted this idea, (which had now been acted on in
Philadelphia, probably from the English model) and substituted labor in
confinement, to the public labor proposed by the Committee of revisal;
which themselves would have done, had they been to act on the subject
again. The public mind was ripe for this in 1796, when Mr. Taylor
proposed it, and ripened chiefly by the experiment in Philadelphia;
whereas, in 1785, when it had been proposed to our Assembly, they were
not quite ripe for it.

In 1789 and 1790, I had a great number of olive plants, of the best
kind, sent from Marseilles to Charleston, for South Carolina and
Georgia. They were planted, and are flourishing; and, though not yet
multiplied, they will be the germ of that cultivation in those States.

In 1790, I got a cask of heavy upland rice, from the river Denbigh,
in Africa, about lat. 9 30' North, which I sent to Charleston, in
hopes it might supersede the culture of the wet rice, which renders
South Carolina and Georgia so pestilential through the summer. It was
divided, and a part sent to Georgia. I know not whether it has been
attended to in South Carolina; but it has spread in the upper parts
of Georgia, so as to have become almost general, and is highly prized.
Perhaps it may answer in Tennessee and Kentucky. The greatest service
which can be rendered any country is, to add an useful plant to its
culture; especially, a bread grain; next in value to bread is oil.

Whether the act for the more general diffusion of knowledge will ever
be carried into complete effect, I know not. It was received by the
legislature with great enthusiasm at first; and a small effort was made
in 1796, by the act to establish public schools, to carry a part of it
into effect, viz., that for the establishment of free English schools;
but the option given to the courts has defeated the intention of the
act.[77]



[NOTE H.]

                                             New York, October 13, 1789.

     SIR,

In the selection of characters to fill the important offices of
Government, in the United States, I was naturally led to contemplate
the talents and dispositions which I knew you to possess and entertain
for the service of your country; and without being able to consult
your inclination, or to derive any knowledge of your intention from
your letters, either to myself or to any other of your friends, I was
determined, as well by motives of private regard, as a conviction of
public propriety, to nominate you for the Department of State, which,
under its present organization, involves many of the most interesting
objects of the Executive authority. But grateful as your acceptance of
this commission would be to me, I am, at the same time, desirous to
accommodate your wishes, and I have, therefore, forborne to nominate
your successor at the court of Versailles, until I should be informed
of your determination.

Being on the eve of a journey through the Eastern States, with a view
to observe the situation of the country, and in a hope of perfectly
re-establishing my health, which a series of indispositions has much
impaired, I have deemed it proper to make this communication of your
appointment, in order that you might lose no time, should it be your
_wish_ to visit Virginia during the recess of Congress, which will
probably be the most convenient season, both as it may respect your
private concerns and the public service.

Unwilling, as I am, to interfere in the direction of your choice of
assistants, I shall only take the liberty of observing to you, that
from warm recommendations which I have received in behalf of Roger
Alden, Esq., assistant Secretary to the late Congress, I have placed
all the papers thereunto belonging, under his care. Those papers which
more properly appertain to the office of Foreign Affairs, are under the
superintendence of Mr. Jay, who has been so obliging as to continue his
good offices, and they are in the immediate charge of Mr. Remsen.

With sentiments of very great esteem and regard,

                      I have the honor to be, sir,
                          Your most obedient servant,
                                                      GEORGE WASHINGTON.

The Honorable Thomas Jefferson.

I take this occasion to acknowledge the receipt of your several favors,
of the 4th and 5th of December of the last, and 10th of May of the
present year, and to thank you for the communications therein.

                                                                   G. W.


                                            New York, November 30, 1789.

     DEAR SIR,

You will perceive by the enclosed letter, (which was left for you at
the office of Foreign Affairs, when I made a journey to the Eastern
States,) the motives on which I acted with regard to yourself, and the
occasion of my explaining them at that early period.

Having now reason to hope, from Mr. Trumbull's report, that you will
be arrived at Norfolk before this time, (on which event I would most
cordially congratulate you,) and having a safe conveyance by Mr.
Griffin, I forward your commission to Virginia; with a request to
be made acquainted with your sentiments as soon as you shall find it
convenient to communicate them to me.

With sentiments of very great esteem and regard,

                            I am, dear sir,
                                Your most obedient humble servant,
                                                     GEORGE WASHINGTON.
													 
													 

GEORGE WASHINGTON TO THE HONORABLE THOMAS JEFFERSON.

                                          NEWBURGH, 10th February, 1783.

DEAR SIR,--I have been honored with your favor of 22d of January from
Philadelphia. I feel myself much flattered by your kind remembrance
of me in the hour of your departure from this continent, for the
favorable sentiments you are pleased to entertain of my services for
this our common country. To merit the approbation of good and virtuous
men is the height of my ambition, and will be a full compensation
for all my toils and sufferings in the long and painful contest in
which we have been engaged. It gave me great pleasure to hear that the
call upon you from Congress to pass the Atlantic in the character of
one of their ministers for negotiating peace had been repeated; but
I hope you will have found the business already done. The speech of
his Britannic Majesty is strongly indicative of the olive branch; and
yet, as he observes, unforseen events may place it out of reach. At
present, the prospect of peace absorbs, or seems to do so, every other
consideration among us; and would, it is to be feared, leave us in a
very unprepared state to continue the war, if the negotiations at Paris
should terminate otherwise than in a general pacification. But I will
hope that it is the dearth of other news that fills the mouths of every
person with peace, while their minds are employed in contemplating on
the means of prosecuting the war, if necessity should drive us to it.
You will please to accept my grateful thanks for your obliging offer
of services during your stay in France. To hear from you frequently
will be an honor and very great satisfaction to, dear Sir, your most
obedient, and most humble servant.


ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON TO THOMAS JEFFERSON.

                                      PHILADELPHIA, 14th February, 1783.

SIR,--I have delayed in answering your favor of the 7th instant until
I could obtain the sense of Congress on the matter it contains.
I conceive it hardly possible, while the British cruisers retain
their present station, for you to elude their vigilance in either
of the ships offered to your choice. This, concurring with the late
advices from England, has induced Congress to pass the enclosed
resolution.[108] We have reason to conjecture that peace is already
concluded; whether it is or not, a few days will determine. I transmit
the speech of his Britannic Majesty, which, with what you already know
of the state of our negotiations, will enable you to form your opinion
on the same ground that we do. I have the honor to be, Sir, with great
respect and esteem, your most obedient, and most humble servant.



ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON TO THOMAS JEFFERSON.

                                        PHILADELPHIA, February 18, 1783.

SIR,--I was yesterday honored with your favor of the 14th, which
I shall lay before Congress this morning. As you have by this time
received their resolution which I had the honor to send you by the last
post, and again enclosed, you will be relieved in some measure from
your embarrassments, though not entirely of your suspense with respect
to their final determination. But that cannot be long doubtful, since
the negotiations have certainly arrived at such a crisis as either to
terminate soon in a peace or a total rupture. In the latter case, you
will necessarily be obliged to proceed on your voyage, as Congress
seems anxious to avail themselves of your abilities and information
in the negotiations, unless they are fully assured that a speedy peace
will preclude them from that advantage.

I enclose a paper which contains all that we have yet received on that
interesting subject. It may, perhaps, be difficult to account for our
ministers having signed before those of France. But if this letter is
genuine, it serves, when compared with their instructions, to prove
that the terms of peace are acceptable to us and not disagreeable to
France. I have the honor to be, Sir, with great respect and esteem,
your most obedient, and most humble servant.



[The following are the sketches of the letter to the Emperor of
Morocco, and of the instructions to Mr. Barclay, referred to in the
preceding letter.]

HEADS FOR A LETTER TO THE EMPEROR OF MOROCCO.

That the United States of America, heretofore connected in government
with Great Britain, had found it necessary for their happiness to
separate from her, and to assume an independent station.

That, consisting of a number of separate States, they had confederated
together, and placed the sovereignty of the whole, in matters relating
to foreign nations, in a body consisting of delegates from every State,
and called the Congress of the United States.

That Great Britain had solemnly confirmed their separation, and
acknowledged their independence.

That after the conclusion of the peace, which terminated the war
in which they had been engaged for the establishment of their
independence, the first attentions of Congress were necessarily
engrossed by the re-establishment of order and regular government.

That they had, as soon as possible, turned their attention to foreign
nations, and, desirous of entering into amity and commerce with them,
had been pleased to appoint us with Dr. Benjamin Franklin, to execute
such treaties for this purpose, as should be agreed on by such nations,
with us, or any two of us.

That Dr. Franklin having found it necessary to return to America, the
execution of these several commissions had devolved on us.

That being placed as Ministers Plenipotentiary for the United States
at the courts of England and France; this circumstance, with the
commissions with which we are charged for entering into treaties with
various other nations, puts it out of our power to attend at the other
courts in person, and obliges us to negotiate by the intervention of
confidential persons.

That, respecting the friendly dispositions shown by his Majesty, the
Emperor of Morocco, towards the United States, and indulging the desire
of forming a connection with a sovereign so renowned for his power, his
wisdom, and his justice, we had embraced the first moment possible, of
assuring him of these, the sentiments of our country and of ourselves,
and of expressing to him our wishes to enter into a connection of
friendship and commerce with him.

That for this purpose, we had commissioned the bearer hereof, Thomas
Barclay, a person in the highest confidence of the Congress of the
United States, and as such, having been several years, and still being
their consul general with our great and good friend and ally, the King
of France, to arrange with his Majesty the Emperor those conditions
which it might be advantageous for both nations to adopt, for the
regulation of their commerce, and their mutual conduct towards each
other.

That we deliver to him a copy of the full powers with which we are
invested, to conclude a treaty with his Majesty, which copy he is
instructed to present to his Majesty.

That though by these, we are not authorized to delegate to him the
power of ultimately signing the treaty, yet such is our reliance on his
wisdom, his integrity, and his attention to the instructions with which
he is charged, that we assure his Majesty, the conditions which he
shall arrange and send to us, shall be returned with our signature, in
order to receive that of the person whom his Majesty shall commission
for the same purpose.

HEADS OF INSTRUCTIONS TO MR. BARCLAY.

Congress having been pleased to invest us with full powers for entering
into a treaty of amity and alliance with the Emperor of Morocco,
and it being impracticable for us to attend his court in person, and
equally impracticable, on account of our separate stations, to receive
a minister from him, we have concluded to effect our object by the
intervention of a confidential person. We concur in wishing to avail
the United States of your talents in the execution of this business,
and therefore furnish you with a letter to the Emperor of Morocco, to
give due credit to your transactions with him.

We advise you to proceed by the way of Madrid, where you will have
opportunities of deriving many lights from Mr. Carmichael, through whom
many communications with the court of Morocco have already passed.

From thence, you will proceed, by such route as you shall think best,
to the court of the Emperor.

You will present to him our letter, with the copy of our full powers,
with which you are furnished, at such time or times, and in such
manner, as you shall find best.

You will proceed to negotiate, with his minister, the terms of a treaty
of amity and commerce, as nearly conformed as possible to the draught
we give you. Where alterations, which, in your opinion, shall not be of
great importance, shall be urged by the other party, you are at liberty
to agree to them. Where they shall be of great importance, and such
as you think should be rejected, you will reject them; but where they
are of great importance, and you think they may be accepted, you will
ask time to take our advice, and will advise with us accordingly, by
letter or by courier, as you shall think best. When the articles shall
all be agreed, you will send them to us by some proper person, for our
signature.

The whole expense of this treaty, including as well the expenses of
all persons employed about it, as the presents to the Emperor and
his servants must not exceed twenty thousand dollars; and we urge you
to use your best endeavors to bring it as much below that sum as you
possibly can. As custom may have rendered some presents necessary in
the beginning or progress of this business, and before it is concluded,
or even in a way to be concluded, we authorize you to conform to the
custom, confiding in your discretion to hazard as little as possible,
before a certainty of the event. We trust to you also to procure the
best information, as to what persons, and in what form, these presents
should be made, and to make them accordingly.

The difference between the customs of that and other courts, the
difficulty of obtaining a knowledge of those customs, but on the spot,
and our great confidence in your discretion, induce us to leave to
that all other circumstances relative to the object of your mission.
It will be necessary for you to take a secretary, well skilled in
the French language, to aid you in your business, and to take charge
of your papers in case of any accident to yourself. We think you may
allow him ---- guineas a year, besides his expenses for travelling and
subsistence. We engage to furnish your own expenses, according to the
respectability of the character with which you are invested; but, as
to the allowance for your trouble, we wish to leave it to Congress. We
annex hereto sundry heads of inquiry which we wish you to make, and to
give us thereon the best information you shall be able to obtain. We
desire you to correspond with us by every opportunity which you think
should be trusted, giving us, from time to time, an account of your
proceedings and prospects.

HEADS OF INQUIRY FOR MR. BARCLAY, AS TO MOROCCO.

1. Commerce. What are the articles of their export and import? What
duties are levied by them on exports and imports? Do all nations pay
the same, or what nations are favored, and how far? Are they their
own carriers, or who carries for them? Do they trade themselves to
other countries, or are they merely passive?

2. Ports. What are their principal ports? What depth of water in them?
What works of defence protect these ports?

3. Naval force. How many armed vessels have they? Of what kind and
force? What is the constitution of their naval force? What resources
for increasing their navy? What number of seamen? Their cruising
grounds, and seasons of cruising?

4. Prisoners. What is their condition and treatment? At what price are
they ordinarily redeemed, and how?

Do they pay respect to the treaties they make?

Land forces. Their numbers, constitution and respectability?

Revenues. Their amount.

Coins. What coins pass there, and at what rates?


     _The case of Lister Asquith, owner of the schooner William
     and Catharine, William M'Neil, captain, William Thomson,
     William Neily, Robert Anderson, mariners, and William Fowler,
     passenger._

Lister Asquith, citizen of the State of Maryland, having a law-suit
depending in England, which required his presence, as involving in its
issue nearly his whole fortune, determined to go thither in a small
schooner of his own, that he might, at the same time, take with him an
adventure of tobacco and flour to Liverpool, where he had commercial
connections. This schooner he purchased as of fifty-nine and a quarter
tons, as appears by his bill of sale, but she had been registered by
her owner at twenty-one tons, in order to evade the double duties
in England, to which American vessels are now subject. He cleared
out from Baltimore for Liverpool, the 11th of June, 1785, with eight
hogsheads of tobacco and sixty barrels of flour, but ran aground at
Smith's point, sprung a leak, and was obliged to return to Baltimore
to refit. Having stopped his leak, he took his cargo on board again,
and his health being infirm, he engaged Captain William M'Neil[115] to
go with him, and, on the 20th of June, sailed for Norfolk in Virginia,
and, on the 22d, came to in Hampton road, at the mouth of the river on
which Norfolk is. Learning here that tobacco would be better than flour
for the English market, he landed fifty barrels of his flour and one
hogshead of tobacco, which he found to be bad, meaning to take, instead
thereof, nine hogsheads of tobacco more. But the same night it began to
blow very hard, with much rain. The 23d, the storm became more heavy;
they let go both their anchors, but were driven, notwithstanding, from
their anchorage, forced to put to sea and to go before the wind. The
occurrences of their voyage will be best detailed by short extracts
from the log-book.

     _June 24._ The weather becomes worse. One of the fore shrouds
     and the foremast carried away.

     _June 25._ Shifted their ballast which threw them on their
     beam ends, and shipped a very heavy sea. Held a consultation,
     the result of which was, that seeing they were now driven so
     far to sea, and the weather continuing still very bad, it was
     better to steer for Liverpool, their port of destination,
     though they had not their cargo on board, and no other
     clearance but that which they took from Baltimore.

     _June 29._ The first observation they had been able to take
     N. lat. 38 13.

     _June 30._ Winds begin to be light, but the sea still very
     heavy.

     _July 5._ Light winds and a smooth sea for the first time, in
     lat. 43 12.

     _July 9._ Spoke a French brig, Comte d'Artois, Captain
     Mieaux, from St. Maloes, in distress for provisions. Relieved
     her with three barrels of flour.

     _Aug. 6._ Thick weather and a strong wind. Made the Lands'
     End of England.

     _Aug. 7._ Unable to fetch the land, therefore bore
     off for Scilly, and came to with both anchors. Drove,
     notwithstanding, and obliged to get up the anchors, and put
     to sea, running southwardly.

     _Aug. 8._ Made the land of France, but did not know what
     part.

Here the logbook ends. At this time they had on board but ten gallons
of water, four or five barrels of bread, two or three pounds of
candles, no firewood. Their sails unfit to be trusted to any longer,
and all their materials for mending them exhausted by the constant
repairs which the violence of the weather had called for. They
therefore took a pilot aboard, who carried them into Pont Duval; but
being informed by the captain of a vessel there that the schooner was
too sharp built (as the American vessels mostly are) to lie in that
port, they put out immediately, and the next morning the pilot brought
them to anchor in the road of the Isle de Bas. Asquith went immediately
to Roscaff, protested at the admiralty the true state of his case, and
reported his vessel and cargo at the custom-house. In making the report
of his vessel, he stated her as of twenty-one tons, according to his
register. The officer informed him that if she was no larger, she would
be confiscated by an edict, which forbids all vessels under thirty tons
to approach the coast. He told the officer what was the real truth
as to his register and his bill of sale, and was permitted to report
her according to the latter. He paid the usual fees of ten livres and
seven sols, and obtained a clearance. Notwithstanding this, he was soon
visited by other persons whom he supposes to have been commis of the
Fermes, who seized his vessel, carried her to the pier, and confined
the crew to the vessel and half the pier, putting sentinels over them.
They brought a guager, who measured only her hold and part of her
steerage, allowing nothing for the cockpit, cabin, forecastle, and
above one-half of the steerage, which is almost half the vessel, and
thus made her contents (if that had been of any importance) much below
the truth. The tobacco was weighed, and found to be six thousand four
hundred and eighty-seven pounds,[116] which was sent on the 18th to
Landivisian, and on the 19th they were committed to close prison at St.
Pol de Leon, where they have been confined ever since. They had, when
they first landed, some money, of which they were soon disembarrassed
by different persons, who, in various forms, undertook to serve them.
Unable to speak or understand a word of the language of the country,
friendless, and left without money, they have languished three months
in a loathsome jail, without any other sustenance, a great part of the
time, than what could be procured for three sous a day, which have been
furnished them to prevent their perishing.

They have been made to understand that a criminal process is going on
against them under two heads. 1. As having sold tobacco in contraband;
and 2, as having entered a port of France in a vessel of less than
thirty tons burthen. In support of the first charge, they understand
that the circumstance is relied on, of their having been seen off the
coast by the employs des Fermes one or two days. They acknowledge they
may have been so seen while beating off Pont Duval till they could get
a pilot while entering that port, and again going round from thence to
the road of the Isle de Bas. The reasons for this have been explained.
They further add, that all the time they were at Pont Duval they had
a King's officer on board, from whom, as well as from their pilot and
the captain, by whose advice they left that port for the Isle de Bas,
information can be obtained by their accusers (who are not imprisoned),
of the true motives for that measure. It is said to be urged also, that
there was found in their vessel some loose tobacco in a blanket, which
excites a suspicion that they had been selling tobacco. When they were
stowing their loading, they broke a hogshead, as is always necessary,
and is always done, to fill up the stowage, and to consolidate and
keep the whole mass firm, and in place. The loose tobacco which had
come out of the broken hogshead, they repacked in bags; but in the
course of the distress of their disastrous voyage, they had employed
these bags, as they had done everything else of the same nature, in
mending their sails. The condition of their sails, when they came into
port, will prove this, and they were seen by witnesses enough, to whom
their accusers, being at their liberty, can have access. Besides, the
sale of a part of their tobacco is a fact which, had it taken place,
might have been proved; but they deny that it has been proved, or
ever can be proved by true men, because it never existed. And they
hope the justice of this country does not permit strangers, seeking in
her ports an asylum from death, to be thrown into jail and continued
there indefinitely, on the possibility of a fact, without any proof.
More especially when, as in the present case, a demonstration to the
contrary is furnished by their clearance, which shows they never had
more than eight hogsheads of tobacco on board, of which one had been
put ashore at Hampton in Virginia, as has been before related, and
the seven others remained when they first entered port. If they had
been smugglers of tobacco, the opposite coast offered a much fairer
field, because the gain there is as great; because they understand the
language and laws of the country, they know its harbors and coasts,
and have connections in them. These circumstances are so important to
smugglers, that it is believed no instance has ever occurred of the
contraband of tobacco, attempted on this side the channel by a crew
wholly American. Be this as it may, they are not of that description of
men.

As to the second charge, that they have entered a port of France in
a vessel of less than thirty tons burthen, they, in the first place,
observe that they saw the guager measure the vessel, and affirm that
his method of measuring could render little more than half her true
contents; but they say, further, that were she below the size of thirty
tons, and, when entering the port, had they known of the alternative
of either forfeiting their vessel and cargo, or of perishing at sea,
they must still have entered the port: the loss of their vessel and
cargo being the lesser evil. But the character of the lawgiver assures
them, that the intention of his laws are perverted when misapplied to
persons who, under their circumstances, take refuge in his ports. They
have no occasion to recur from his clemency to his justice, by claiming
the benefit of that article in the treaty which binds the two nations
together, and which assures to the fugitives of either from the dangers
of the sea, a hospitable reception and necessary aids in the ports of
the other, and that without measuring the size of their vessel.

Upon the whole, they protest themselves to have been as innocent as
they have been unfortunate. Instead of relief in a friendly port, they
have seen their misfortunes aggravated by the conduct of officers,
who, in their greediness for gain, can see in no circumstance anything
but proofs of guilt. They have already long suffered, and are still
suffering, whatever scanty sustenance an inclement season and close
confinement can offer most distressing to men who have been used to
neither, and who have wives and children at home participating of
their distresses; they are utterly ignorant of the laws and language
of the country where they are suffering; they are deprived of that
property which would have enabled them to procure counsel to place
their injuries in a true light; they are distant from the stations of
those who are appointed by their country to patronize their rights;
they are not at liberty to go to them, nor able to have communication
through any other than the uncertain medium of the posts; and they see
themselves already ruined by the losses and delays they have been made
to incur, and by the failure of the original object of their voyage.
They throw themselves, therefore, on the patronage of the government,
and pray that its energies may be interposed in aid of their poverty
and ignorance, to restore them to their liberty, and to extend to them
that retribution which the laws of every country mean to extend to
those who suffer unjustly.
